#Resource initialization When you first deploy your project or add a new
container to it, Upsun uses \[default resources\](#default-resources)
unless you specify a \[resource initialization
strategy\](#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy). You can also
use a specific resource initialization strategy when performing certain
actions, such as \[branching\](#environment-branch),
\[merging\](#environment-merge), and
\[activating\](#environment-activation) an environment, or \[restoring a
backup\](#backup-restoration). \## Default resources Upsun allocates the
following default resources to every container when deployed for the
first time: \| Resource type \| Amount \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| CPU \| 0.5 \| \| RAM \| Depends on the
\[container
profile\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.md#advanced-container-profiles).
\| \| Disk size (only applicable if the app or service requires a disk)
\| 512 MB \| If you don\'t want to use these default resources, you can
specify a \[resource initialization
strategy\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy).
You can also \[adjust resources\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.md)
after your project or new container has been deployed.

### Note

For information on costs related to resource usage, see the Upsun
pricing page. You can monitor these costs in the Console.

\## Specify a resource initialization strategy Upsun provides the
following resource initialization strategies: \| Strategy \| Description
\| \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| \`default\` \|
Initializes new containers using the \[Upsun default
resources\](#default-resources).This strategy applies when you first
deploy your project (or new container) unless you explicitly specify a
different strategy, or allocate resources manually via the
\`resources:set\` CLI command. \| \| \`manual\` \| With this strategy,
the first deployment fails and you need to configure resources manually
through \[the Console\](https://console.upsun.com/), or using
\`resources:set\` in the CLI. This strategy allows you to set the exact
resources you want, with a single deployment. Other strategies may
require fine-tuning, and therefore generate a second deployment. In this
case, your environment would run for a short time with unwanted
resources, and both deployments would generate downtime.\| \|
\`minimum\` \| Initializes new containers using the Upsun minimum
resources (see below). \| \| \`parent\` \| Initializes new containers
using the same resources as on the parent environment.If there is no
parent environment, or if the container doesn\'t already exist on the
parent, the \`default\` strategy applies instead. \| \| \`child\` \|
Initializes new containers using the same resources as on the child
environment. Only relevant during merge activities. \| \| \`backup\` \|
When restoring a backup, initializes new containers using the same
resources as when the backup was taken. \|

### More information on...

**Upsun minimum resources**

The following table shows the resources Upsun allocates to your
containers when you opt for the `minimum` [resource initialization
strategy](#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy).

  Container               CPU   RAM      Disk\*
  ----------------------- ----- -------- --------
  .NET core               0.1   64 MB    0 MB
  Chrome Headless         0.1   64 MB    None
  Elasticsearch           0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  Elasticsearch Premium   0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  Elixir                  0.1   64 MB    0 MB
  Go                      0.1   64 MB    0 MB
  InfluxDB                0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  Java                    0.1   448 MB   0 MB
  Kafka                   0.1   448 MB   512 MB
  Lisp                    0.1   64 MB    0 MB
  MariaDB                 0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  Memcached               0.1   352 MB   None
  MongoDB                 0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  MongoDB Premium         0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  Network Storage         0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  Node.js                 0.1   64 MB    0 MB
  OpenSearch              0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  Oracle MySQL            0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  PHP                     0.1   64 MB    0 MB
  PostgreSQL              0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  Python                  0.1   64 MB    0 MB
  RabbitMQ                0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  Redis ephemeral         0.1   352 MB   None
  Redis persistent        0.1   352 MB   256 MB
  Ruby                    0.1   64 MB    0 MB
  Rust                    0.1   64 MB    0 MB
  Solr                    0.1   448 MB   256 MB
  Varnish                 0.1   448 MB   None
  Vault KMS               0.1   448 MB   256 MB

\* The disk size is set to `None` when the container never uses disk,
and to `0 MB` when the container doesn't require disk but *can* use it.

You can specify a resource initialization strategy when performing the
following actions: \| Action \| Available strategies \| Default \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \[First deployment\](#first-deployment) \| \`parent\`, \`default\`,
\`minimum\`, \`manual\` \| \`parent\` \| \| \[Environment
branch\](#environment-branch) \| \`parent\`, \`default\`, \`minimum\` \|
\`parent\` \| \| \[Environment merge\](#environment-merge) \| \`child\`,
\`default\`, \`minimum\`, \`manual\` \| \`child\` \| \| \[Environment
activation\](#environment-activation) \| \`parent\`, \`default\`,
\`minimum\` \| \`parent\` \| \| \[Backup
restoration\](#backup-restoration) \| \`backup\`, \`parent\`,
\`default\`, \`minimum\` \| \`backup\` \| \### First deployment

### Resource initialization strategies

Available: `parent`, `default`, `minimum`, `manual` Default: `parent`

You can define \[which resource initialization
strategy\](#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy) Upsun uses to
allocate resources when you first deploy your project or add a new
container.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Without a source integration
-   With a source integration

If you're not using a source integration, you can use a [Git push
option](/environments.html#push-options) to specify a resource
initialization strategy. To do so, run the following command:

Terminal `upsun push --resources-init=INITIALIZATION_STRATEGY`

For example, to use the `minimum` strategy for your deployment, run the
following command:

Terminal `upsun push --resources-init=minimum`

### Note

Alternatively, you can use the official Git syntax for [push
options](/environments.html#push-options):

Terminal `git push upsun -o resources.init=minimum`

Note that you can specify a different resource initialization strategy
for each of your deployments.

If you're using a source integration, you can use the `--resources-init`
flag to specify a resource initialization strategy.

### Note

Once a resource initialization strategy is specified for your source
integration, it applies to **all** the deployments you launch through
that source integration.

To specify a resource initialization strategy when creating your source
integration, include the `--resources-init` flag in your source
integration options. For example, if you set up a GitHub integration,
use the following options:

Terminal
`platform integration:add \ --project PROJECT_ID \ --type github \ --repository OWNER/REPOSITORY \ --token GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN \ --base-url GITHUB_URL --resources-init INITIALIZATION_STRATEGY`

To specify a resource initialization strategy for an existing source
integration, run the following command:

Terminal
`upsun integration:update --resources-init=INITIALIZATION_STRATEGY`

For example, to use the `minimum` strategy for your deployment, run the
the following command:

Terminal `upsun integration:update --resources-init=minimum` \###
Environment branch

### Resource initialization strategies

Available: `parent`, `default`, `minimum` Default: `parent`

By default, when you \[branch an environment\](/glossary.md#branch) to
create a new child environment, the child environment inherits all the
resources from its parent. However, you can specify a different
\[resource initialization
strategy\](#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy).

### Note

When you branch an environment, regardless of the strategy you
specified, Upsun checks if the child environment's disk size is at least
equivalent to the parent's. If not, the parent environment's disk size
is automatically applied to the child environment. This ensures the
branching can succeed.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following command:

Terminal
`upsun environment:branch --resources-init=INITIALIZATION_STRATEGY`

For example, to use the `minimum` resource initialization strategy, run
the following command:

Terminal `upsun environment:branch --resources-init=minimum`

1.  Navigate to the environment you want to branch from.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+QnJhbmNoPC90aXRsZT4KICAgICAgPHBhdGggZmlsbD0iI2N1cnJlbnQiIGQ9Ik0xNC41LDQuOWwxLjYsMS42bC0yLjQsMi40Yy0wLjQsMC40LTAuNCwxLDAsMS40bDAuMSwwLjFjMC40LDAuNCwxLDAuNCwxLjQsMEwxNy42LDhsMS42LDEuNmMwLjMsMC4zLDAuOSwwLjEsMC45LTAuNFY0LjUKYzAtMC4zLTAuMi0wLjUtMC41LTAuNWgtNC43QzE0LjQsNCwxNC4yLDQuNSwxNC41LDQuOXogTTguOCw0SDQuNUM0LjIsNCw0LDQuMiw0LDQuNXY0LjNjMCwwLjQsMC41LDAuNywwLjksMC40bDEuNC0xLjRsNC4xLDQuMQpjMC40LDAuNCwwLjYsMC45LDAuNiwxLjRWMTljMCwwLjYsMC40LDEsMSwxbDAsMGMwLjYsMCwxLTAuNCwxLTF2LTYuNmMwLTAuNS0wLjItMS0wLjYtMS40TDcuNyw2LjNsMS40LTEuNEM5LjUsNC41LDkuMiw0LDguOCw0eiIgLz48L3N2Zz4=)
    **Branch**.
3.  Enter a name and a type for the new environment.
4.  Select an initialization strategy from the proposed list.
5.  Click **Branch**.

\### Environment merge

### Resource initialization strategies

Available: `child`, `default`, `minimum`, `manual` Default: `child`

When you \[merge\](/glossary.md#merge) a child environment into its
parent environment, any apps and services you created on the child are
merged and therefore created on the parent. When this happens, any new
app or service container created on the parent environment is granted
the same resources as on the child environment. However, you can specify
a different resource initialization strategy.

### Note

Any other container already running on the parent environment keeps its
resources.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following command:

Terminal
`upsun environment:merge --resources-init=INITIALIZATION_STRATEGY`

For example, to use the `manual` resource initialization strategy, run
the following command:

Terminal `upsun environment:merge --resources-init=manual`

1.  Navigate to the environment you want to merge into its parent.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Merge**.
3.  Select an initialization strategy from the proposed list.

### Note

The list of strategies is only displayed if a new app or service is
included in the merge.

1.  Click **Merge**.

\### Environment activation

### Resource initialization strategies

Available: `parent`, `default`, `minimum` Default: `parent`

When you activate an environment, Upsun uses the same resource
allocation as on the parent environment. If there is no parent
environment, the \[\`default\` resource initialization
strategy\](#default-resources) applies. You can also specify a different
resource initialization strategy using the CLI. To do so, run the
following command: \`\`\`bash {} upsun environment:activate
\--resources-init=INITIALIZATION_STRATEGY \`\`\` For example, to use the
\`minimum\` resource initialization strategy, run the following command:
\`\`\`bash {} upsun environment:activate \--resources-init=minimum
\`\`\`

### Note

Setting resources on a inactive environment using the Console or the CLI
automatically activates it.

\### Backup restoration

### Resource initialization strategies

Available: `backup`, `parent`, `default`, `minimum` Default: `backup`

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

When you restore a backup using the CLI, you can restore it to your
current environment or a different environment.

## Backup restoration to your current environment

By default, when you restore a backup using the CLI, it is restored to
your current environment. The resources of every container already
running on the environment are reverted to their original state when the
backup was taken.

### Note

If you don't want to restore the resources from when the backup was
taken, opt out of restoring the resources. To do so, when you restore
your backup, use the `--no-resources` option.

If you deleted containers after backing up but before restoring, they
are recreated using the `backup` strategy. Meaning, they are granted the
same resources as in the backup.

### Note

If you don't want to restore previously deleted containers, opt out of
restoring the code. To do so, when you restore your backup, use the
`--no-code` option.

When you restore previously deleted containers, you can specify a
different resource initialization strategy for them.

## Backup restoration to a different environment

The `backup` strategy also applies by default. All apps and services are
initialized as new containers on the environment, and granted the same
resources as in the backup. Note that you can specify a different
resource initialization strategy for all of them.

## Specify a resource initialization strategy when restoring a backup via the CLI

Run the following command:

Terminal `upsun backup:restore --resources-init=INITIALIZATION_STRATEGY`

For example, to use the `minimum` resource initialization strategy, run
the following command:

Terminal `upsun backup:restore --resources-init=minimum`

When you restore a backup using the Console, it is restored to your
current environment. The resources of every container already running on
the environment are reverted to their original state when the backup was
taken.

### Note

If you don't want to restore the resources from when the backup was
taken, opt out of restoring the resources. To do so, when you restore
your backup, use the `--no-resources` option.

If you deleted containers after backing up but before restoring, they
are recreated using the `backup` strategy. Meaning, they are granted the
same resources as in the backup.

### Note

If you don't want to restore previously deleted containers, opt out of
restoring the code. To do so, restore the backup using the CLI, and use
the `--no-code` option.

\## Environment sync \[Syncing an environment\](/glossary.md#sync) means
merging changes from a parent environment into a child environment. You
can sync: - Only the code - Only the data (databases, files) - Only the
resources (CPU and RAM, instances, and disk space) - Any combination of
the three (code and data, data and resources, etc.)

### Note

When you sync the data, Upsun checks if the child environment's disk
size is at least equivalent to the parent's. If not, the parent
environment's disk size is automatically applied to the child
environment. This ensures the sync can succeed.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following commands depending on your needs:

-   Sync only resources:

    Terminal `upsun sync resources`

-   Sync only code:

    Terminal `upsun sync code`

-   Sync only data:

    Terminal `upsun sync data`

-   Sync everything:

    Terminal `upsun sync code data resources`

    You can adjust the command depending on the exact combination of
    elements you want to sync.

1.  Navigate to your Production environment.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Sync**.
3.  Select the sync options you want from the proposed list.
4.  Select **Sync resources from Production into Staging**.
5.  Click **Sync**.

#Get started This guide provides instructions for deploying and working
with Laravel on Upsun. \## Before you begin You need: -
\[Git\](https://git-scm.com/downloads). Git is the primary tool to
manage everything your app needs to run. Push commits to deploy changes
and control configuration through YAML files. These files describe your
infrastructure, making it transparent and version-controlled. - A Upsun
account. If you don\'t already have one, \[register for a trial
account\](https://auth.upsun.com/register). You can sign up with an
email address or an existing GitHub, Bitbucket, or Google account. If
you choose one of these accounts, you can set a password for your Upsun
account later. - The \[Upsun CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md). This
lets you interact with your project from the command line. You can also
do most things through the \[Web
Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md). \## 1. Create your Laravel
app 1. To create a new Laravel project, run the following commands:
\`\`\`bash {} composer create-project laravel/laravel:\^11.0
PROJECT_NAME cd PROJECT_NAME git init . \`\`\` Alternatively, you can
deploy an \*\*existing Laravel project\*\*. To do so, \`cd\` into your
Laravel repository root folder. 2. To generate a sensible default Upsun
configuration, run the following command from within the project\'s
directory: \`\`\`bash {} upsun project:init \`\`\` The Upsun CLI detects
a PHP & Laravel stack. Follow the prompts to specify a name for your
project and select the needed services. While optional, it is
recommended to add \[Redis\](/add-services/redis.md) to your project to
handle Laravel cache, queues & sessions. The \`.upsun/config.yaml\` and
\`.environment\` configuration files are generated. 3. Enable the PHP
extensions required by the services you selected. For example,
\`pdo_mysql\` is enabled by default, but you may need to enable others
like \`redis\` or \`pdo_pgsql\`: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
\[\...\] runtime: extensions: - redis - pdo_pgsql \`\`\` See all the
\[available PHP extensions\](/languages/php/extensions.html). 3. Laravel
requires an \[encryption
key\](https://laravel.com/docs/master/encryption#gracefully-rotating-encryption-keys).
To generate the key locally, run \`php artisan key:generate\`. Copy the
key from your local \`.env\` file into \`.environment\` as follows:
\`\`\`bash {} export APP_false\"\>APP_KEY\" \`\`\` 4. Add and commit
your changes: \`\`\`bash {} git add .upsun/config.yaml .environment git
commit -m \"Add Upsun configuration\" \`\`\` \## 2. Create your Upsun
project To create a project on Upsun, run the following command from
within the project\'s directory: \`\`\`bash {} upsun project:create
\--title PROJECT_TITLE \--set-remote \`\`\` The \`\--set-remote\` flag
sets the new project as the remote for this repository.

### Tip

You can link any repository to an existing Upsun project using the
following command:

Terminal `upsun project:set-remote PROJECT_ID`

\## 3. Deploy your project To deploy your project, run the following
command: \`\`\`bash {} upsun push \`\`\` During deployment, the logs
from the Upsun API are displayed in your terminal so you can monitor
progress. To stop the display of the logs \*\*without interrupting the
deployment\*\*, use \`CTRL+C\` in your terminal. To go back to
displaying the logs, run \`upsun activity:log\`. Congratulations, your
first Laravel app has been deployed on Upsun!

### Tip

Now that your app is deployed in production mode, you can set up a
custom domain.

\## 4. Configure write access The Upsun default configuration stipulates
three writable folders in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`: - \`\"/.config\"\` -
\`\"bootstrap/cache\"\` - \`\"storage\"\` If your application writes
content outside of these default ones, you can \[set up
mounts\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#mounts). \## 5.
Make changes to your project Now that your project is deployed, you can
start making changes to it. For example, you might want to fix a bug or
add a new feature. In your project, the main branch always represents
the production environment. Other branches are for developing new
features, fixing bugs, or updating the infrastructure. To make changes
to your project, follow these steps: 1. Create a new environment (a Git
branch) to make changes without impacting production: \`\`\`bash {}
upsun branch feat-a \`\`\` This command creates a new local \`feat-a\`
Git branch based on the main Git branch, and activates a related
environment on Upsun. The new environment inherits the data (service
data and assets) of its parent environment (the production environment
here). 2. Make changes to your project. For example, edit the
\`resources/views/welcome.blade.php\` template and make the following
visual changes: \`\`\`html {}

\-

Laravel

\+

Laravel On Upsun

\`\`\` 3. Add and commit your changes: \`\`\`bash {} add . git commit -a
-m \"Update title\" \`\`\` 4. Deploy your changes to the \`feat-a\`
environment: \`\`\`bash {} upsun deploy \`\`\` Note that each
environment has its own domain name. To view the domain name of your new
environment, run the following command: \`\`\`bash {} upsun url
\--primary \`\`\` 5. Iterate by changing the code, committing, and
deploying. When satisfied with your changes, merge them to the main
branch, deploy, and remove the feature branch: \`\`\`bash {} git
checkout main git merge feat-a upsun environment:delete feat-a git
branch -d feat-a upsun deploy \`\`\` Note that deploying to production
is fast because the image built for the \`feat-a\` environment is
reused. For a long running branch, keep the code up-to-date with the
main branch by using \`git merge main\` or \`git rebase main\`. Also,
keep the data in sync with the production environment by using \`upsun
env:sync\`. \## 6. Optional: Use a third-party Git provider When you
choose to use a third-party Git hosting service, the Upsun Git
repository becomes a read-only mirror of the third-party repository. All
your changes take place in the third-party repository. Add an
integration to your existing third-party repository: -
\[BitBucket\](/integrations/source/bitbucket.md) -
\[GitHub\](/integrations/source/github.md) -
\[GitLab\](/integrations/source/gitlab.md)

Back

Configure environment variables

#Get started Upsun is the official \[Symfony\](https://symfony.com/)
PaaS. This guide provides instructions for deploying, and working with,
Symfony on Upsun. \## Before you begin You need: -
\[Git\](https://git-scm.com/downloads). Git is the primary tool to
manage everything your app needs to run. Push commits to deploy changes
and control configuration through YAML files. These files describe your
infrastructure, making it transparent and version-controlled. - A Upsun
account. If you don\'t already have one, \[register for a trial
account\](https://auth.upsun.com/register). You can sign up with an
email address or an existing GitHub, Bitbucket, or Google account. If
you choose one of these accounts, you can set a password for your Upsun
account later. - The \[Symfony CLI\](https://symfony.com/download). This
lets you interact with your project from the command line. You can also
do most things through the \[Web
Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md).

### Note

The Symfony CLI wraps the Upsun CLI with added features related to
Symfony. So when using Symfony, you can replace `upsun <command>` by
`symfony upsun:<command>` in all of your commands.

\## 1. Create your Symfony app To get familiar with Upsun, create a new
Symfony project from scratch. The present tutorial uses the \[Symfony
Demo\](https://symfony.com/doc/current/setup.html#the-symfony-demo-application)
app as an example : \`\`\`bash {} symfony new PROJECT_NAME \--demo
\--upsun cd PROJECT_NAME \`\`\` The \`\--demo\` flag pulls the \[Symfony
Demo skeleton\](https://github.com/symfony/demo). The \`\--upsun\` flag
automatically generates the Upsun configuration file.

### Note

Alternatively, you can deploy an **existing Symfony project**. To do so,
follow these steps:

1.  To generate a sensible default Upsun configuration, run the
    following command from within the project's directory:

    Terminal `symfony project:init --upsun`

    This generates the `.upsun/config.yaml` and `php.ini` configuration
    files.

2.  Add and commit your changes:

    Terminal
    `git add .upsun/config.yaml php.ini git commit -m "Add Upsun configuration"`

\## 2. Create your Upsun project To create a project on Upsun, run the
following command from within the project\'s directory: \`\`\`bash {}
symfony upsun:create \--title PROJECT_TITLE \--set-remote \`\`\` The
\`\--set-remote\` flag sets the new project as the remote for this
repository.

### Tip

You can link any repository to an existing Upsun project using the
following command:

Terminal `symfony upsun:set-remote PROJECT_ID`

\## 3. Deploy your project To deploy your project, run the following
command: \`\`\`bash {} symfony upsun:deploy \`\`\` During deployment,
the logs from the Upsun API are displayed in your terminal so you can
monitor progress. To stop the display of the logs \*\*without
interrupting the deployment\*\*, use \`CTRL+C\` in your terminal. To go
back to displaying the logs, run \`symfony upsun:activity:log\`.
Congratulations, your first Symfony app has been deployed on Upsun!

### Tip

Now that your app is deployed in production mode, you can define a
custom domain for your live website. To do so, see how to [set up a
custom domain on
Upsun](/administration/web/configure-project.html#domains), or run the
following command:

Terminal `symfony upsun:domain:add YOUR_DOMAIN`

\## 4. Make changes to your project Now that your project is deployed,
you can start making changes to it. For example, you might want to fix a
bug or add a new feature. In your project, the main branch always
represents the production environment. Other branches are for developing
new features, fixing bugs, or updating the infrastructure. To make
changes to your project, follow these steps: 1. Create a new environment
(a Git branch) to make changes without impacting production: \`\`\`bash
{} symfony upsun:branch feat-a \`\`\` This command creates a new local
\`feat-a\` Git branch based on the main Git branch, and activates a
related environment on Upsun. The new environment inherits the data
(service data and assets) of its parent environment (the production
environment here). 2. Make changes to your project. For example, if you
created a Symfony Demo app, edit the
\`templates/default/homepage.html.twig\` template and make the following
visual changes: \`\`\`html {} {% block body %} -

# {{ \'title.homepage\'\|trans\|raw }}

\+

# Welcome to the Upsun Demo

\`\`\` 3. Add and commit your changes: \`\`\`bash {} git commit -a -m
\"Update text\" \`\`\` 4. Deploy your changes to the \`feat-a\`
environment: \`\`\`bash {} symfony upsun:deploy \`\`\` Note that each
environment has its own domain name. To view the domain name of your new
environment, run the following command: \`\`\`bash {} symfony upsun:url
\--primary \`\`\` 5. Iterate by changing the code, committing, and
deploying. When satisfied with your changes, merge them to the main
branch, deploy, and remove the feature branch: \`\`\`bash {} git
checkout main git merge feat-a symfony environment:delete feat-a git
branch -d feat-a symfony upsun:deploy \`\`\` Note that deploying to
production is fast because the image built for the \`feat-a\`
environment is reused. For a long running branch, keep the code
up-to-date with the main branch by using \`git merge main\` or \`git
rebase main\`. Also, keep the data in sync with the production
environment by using \`symfony upsun:env:sync\`. \## 5. Optional: Use a
third-party Git provider When you choose to use a third-party Git
hosting service, the Upsun Git repository becomes a read-only mirror of
the third-party repository. All your changes take place in the
third-party repository. Add an integration to your existing third-party
repository: - \[BitBucket\](/integrations/source/bitbucket.md) -
\[GitHub\](/integrations/source/github.md) -
\[GitLab\](/integrations/source/gitlab.md)

Back

Symfony integration

#Resource configuration When you first deploy your project, or add a new
app or service to it, Upsun allocates \[default
resources\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md#default-resources) to
each of your containers. If you don\'t want to use those default
resources, define a different \[resource initialization
strategy\](/manage-resources/resource-init#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy).
After the initial deployment, or if you opt for the \`Manual\`
\[resource initialization
strategy\](/manage-resources/resource-init#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy),
you can adjust container resources manually. To do so, follow the
instructions on this page. Upsun allows you to configure resources (CPU,
RAM, and disk) per environment for each app and service. You can also
add instances for each app depending on your needs. For example, you can
scale vertically and allocate more resources to your production and
staging environments than to your development environments. This
flexibility allows you to optimize performance and costs. You can also
scale horizontally if your apps are struggling with high load, or if
you\'re expecting a traffic spike, by adding more instances for your
apps and workers.

### Note

For information on costs related to resource usage, see the Upsun
pricing page. You can monitor these costs in the Console.

\## Vertical scaling To define how much CPU, RAM, and disk storage you
want to allocate to each individual container, follow these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   From the Console

To set resources for each of your apps and services, you can use the
Upsun CLI interactive prompts, or run commands manually.

-   **Interactive prompts:**

Run the `upsun resources:set` command, and follow the prompts to set
resources for each app and service.

### Note

For further guidance on how to set resources using the CLI, run the
`upsun resources:set --help` command. Note that if the deployment fails
after you've run `upsun resources:set`, you may need to set the
resources again.

After you've set resources, your environment is redeployed, which causes
a short downtime.

-   **Manual commands:**

Run the `resources:set` command using the following CLI options:

  CLI option   Description
  ------------ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `size`       Allows you to define how much CPU you want to allocate to each app or service.The amount of CPU then determines how much RAM is also allocated, based on the [container profile](#advanced-container-profiles).
  `disk`       Allows you to define how much disk/storage you want to allocate to each app or service.

*Example 1:*

The following command allocates `0.1` CPU to the `frontend` app, `0.25`
CPU to the `backend` app, and `1` CPU to the `database` service. The
amount of RAM these settings translate into depends on each [container
profile](#advanced-container-profiles).

Terminal
`upsun resources:set --size frontend:0.1,backend:0.25,database:1`

*Example 2:*

The following command allocates `640 MB` of disk to the `backend` app,
and `2048 MB` to the `database` service:

Terminal `upsun resources:set --disk backend:640,database:2048`

*Example 3:*

You can also use wildcards. For example, if you have two apps named
`frontend` and `backend`, you could allocate the same CPU and RAM
combination to both by using the following command:

Terminal `upsun resources:set --size '*end:0.1'`

1.  Open your project.
2.  Click the **Configure resources** button in the project card or the
    **App & Services** panel:
3.  For each app and service, select a CPU & RAM combination, and enter
    the amount of disk/storage you want to allocate.

### Note

The values from the **CPU & RAM** menu depend on the [container
profile](#advanced-container-profiles) of each instance. If you deploy
several instances of your app, the selected CPU & RAM combination isn't
divided between those instances. Each instance benefits from the full,
selected CPU & RAM.

1.  Click **Save**. You environment is redeployed, which causes a short
    downtime.

\## Horizontal scaling For apps and workers, you can also define how
many instances you want to deploy. To do so, follow these steps:

### Note

When you have several instances of an app, the Upsun router randomly
distributes requests to available instances.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   From the Console

To define how many instances of an app or worker you want to deploy, you
can use the Upsun CLI interactive prompts, or run commands manually.

-   **Interactive prompts:**

    Run the `upsun resources:set` command, and follow the prompts to set
    resources for each app and service.

### Note

For further guidance on how to set resources using the CLI, run the
`upsun resources:set --help` command.

Note that if the deployment fails after you've run
`upsun resources:set`, you may need to set the resources again.

-   **Manual commands:**

    To scale an app or worker, run the following command:

    Terminal `upsun resources:set --count APP_NAME:NUMBER_OF_INSTANCES`

    For example, to scale your `myapp` app to 3 instances, run the
    following command:

    Terminal `upsun resources:set --count myapp:3`

    You can also set the same instance count for all your apps using a
    wildcard. To do so, run the following command:

    Terminal `upsun resources:set --count '*:NUMBER_OF_INSTANCES'`

    For example, to scale all your apps to 3 instances, run the
    following command:

    Terminal `upsun resources:set --count '*:3'`

### Note

For further guidance on how to set resources using the CLI, run the
`upsun resources:set --help` command.

After you've set the number of instances for your apps and workers, your
environment is redeployed. If you've made no other changes, this
redeployment causes no downtime.

If the redeployment fails after you've run `upsun resources:set`, you
may need to set the resources again.

1.  Open your project.
2.  Click the **Configure resources** button in the project card or the
    **App & Services** panel:
3.  For each of your apps and workers, select the number of instances
    you want to deploy.

### Note

If you deploy several instances of your app, the [selected CPU & RAM
combination](#vertical-scaling) isn't divided between those instances.
Each instance benefits from the full, selected CPU & RAM.

1.  Click **Save**. Your environment is redeployed. If you've only made
    changes to the number of instances for your apps and workers, this
    redeployment causes no downtime.

\## Advanced: Container profiles By default, Upsun allocates a container
profile to each app and service depending on the range of resources
it\'s expected to need. Each container profile gives you access to a
specific list of CPU and RAM combinations. Using the Upsun CLI or
Console, you can then pick a CPU and RAM combination for each of your
apps and services. There are four container profiles available:
\`HIGH_CPU\`, \`BALANCED\`, \`HIGH_MEMORY\`, and \`HIGHER_MEMORY\`. The
following table displays the different CPU and RAM combinations each
container profile provides: \| CPU \| \`HIGH_CPU\` \| \`BALANCED\` \|
\`HIGH_MEMORY\` \| \`HIGHER_MEMORY\` \| \| \-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| 0.1 \|
64 MB \| 352 MB \| 448 MB \| 864 MB \| \| 0.25 \| 128 MB \| 640 MB \|
832 MB \| 1472 MB \| \| 0.5 \| 224 MB \| 1088 MB \| 1408 MB \| 2368 MB
\| \| 1 \| 384 MB \| 1920 MB \| 2432 MB \| 3840 MB \| \| 2 \| 704 MB \|
2800 MB \| 4032 MB \| 6336 MB \| \| 4 \| 1216 MB \| 4800 MB \| 6720 MB
\| 10496 MB \| \| 6 \| 1728 MB \| 6080 MB \| 9024 MB \| 14080 MB \| \| 8
\| 2240 MB \| 7296 MB \| 11200 MB \| 17408 MB \| You can check which
container profile is set for an app or service in your project from the
Console. To do so, navigate to your environment and select the app or
service in the tree on the left-hand side: \![Apps and services
tree\](/images/flexible-resources/check-container-profile.png \"0.25\")
For information on resource-related costs, see the \[Upsun pricing
page\](https://upsun.com/pricing/). \### Default container profiles The
following table shows the default container profiles Upsun applies when
first deploying your project. \| Container \| Default profile \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| Chrome Headless \| HIGH_CPU \| \| ClickHouse \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \|
.NET \| HIGH_CPU \| \| Elasticsearch \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| Elasticsearch
Premium \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| Elixir \| HIGH_CPU \| \| Go \| HIGH_CPU \|
\| Gotenberg \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| InfluxDB \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| Java \|
HIGH_MEMORY \| \| Kafka \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| Lisp \| HIGH_CPU \| \|
MariaDB \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| Memcached \| BALANCED \| \| MongoDB \|
HIGH_MEMORY \| \| MongoDB Premium \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| Network Storage
\| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| NodeJS \| HIGH_CPU \| \| OpenSearch \| HIGH_MEMORY
\| \| Oracle Java \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| Oracle MySQL \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \|
PHP \| HIGH_CPU \| \| PostgreSQL \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| Python \| HIGH_CPU
\| \| RabbitMQ \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| Redis ephemeral \| BALANCED \| \|
Redis persistent \| BALANCED \| \| Ruby \| HIGH_CPU \| \| Rust \|
HIGH_CPU \| \| Solr \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \| Varnish \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \|
Vault KMS \| HIGH_MEMORY \| \### Adjust a container profile In most
cases, it\'s best not to adjust container profiles. As a best practice,
Upsun recommends adjusting the profile of a container \*\*only if the
CPU/RAM ratio doesn't match how the container scales\*\*, taking into
account both production and preview (staging and development)
environments. To adjust a container profile, amend the value of the
\`container_profile\` key in your configuration: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: APP_NAME: container_profile: HIGH_MEMORY services:
SERVICE_NAME: type: SERVICE_TYPE:VERSION container_profile:
HIGHER_MEMORY \`\`\` #Add a database Once your Express app has been
deployed on Upsun, you might want to add a service to it. Upsun projects
already include a \[variety of managed
services\](/add-services.html#available-services), so you don't have to
subscribe to an external cache or search-engine services. As these
services are included in your project, you can manage them through Git.
They're backed up along with the rest of your project. You can add new
services and manage existing service configurations from your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. For example, to add a \[MariaDB database
engine\](/add-services/mysql.html) to your Express project, complete the
following steps: \## 1. Create a new branch for testing To create a new
branch, run the following command: \`\`\`bash {} upsun
environment:branch add-mysql-database \`\`\` \## 2. Add a MariaDB
service Configure the MariaDB service by adding a \`database\` service
to your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" type: \"nodejs:20\" \[\...\]
[services](/add-services.html#available-services): database: type:
mariadb:11.4 \`\`\` To connect the service to your application
(\`\`myapp\`\`), add the following relationship: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: \"nodejs:20\" \[\...\]
relationships: database:
[services](/add-services.html#available-services): database: type:
mariadb:11.4 \`\`\` Commit your change: \`\`\`bash {} git commit -am
\"adding MariaDb database service\" upsun push \`\`\` Upsun now reads
your configuration files and deploys your project using \[default
container resources\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md). If you don\'t
want to use those default resources, define your own \[resource
initialization
strategy\](/manage-resources/resource-init#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy),
or \[amend those default container
resources\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.md) after your project is
deployed. \## 3. Connect to the service To configure your Express app so
it uses your new database, you need a Node.s module named \`mysql2\`. To
install it, run the following command: \`\`\`bash {} npm install mysql2
\`\`\` Wherever your application code attemps to connect to the database
service, Upsun will automatically generate environment variables
containing connection credentials as a function of the relationship
name. In this example, the MariaDB service access is granted to the
application container via the relationship \`database\`. Upsun will
therefore generate the variable \`DATABASE_HOST\` (among many others),
using this name. Here\'s an example of how this credential variable
naming convention is used to connect to a MariaDB service:
\`\`\`javascript {} const express = require(\'express\') const app =
express() const mysql = require(\"mysql2/promise\"); const port =
(process.env.PORT \|\| \'3000\'); function openConnection() { return
mysql.createConnection({ host: process.env.DATABASE_HOST, port:
process.env.DATABASE_PORT, user: process.env.DATABASE_USERNAME,
password: process.env.DATABASE_PASSWORD, database:
process.env.DATABASE_DATABASE }); } function createTable(connection) {
return connection.execute( \`CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS upsuninfo ( uid
INT(10) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT, username VARCHAR(64) NULL DEFAULT NULL,
departname VARCHAR(128) NULL DEFAULT NULL, created DATE NULL DEFAULT
NULL, PRIMARY KEY (uid) ) DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8
COLLATE=utf8_unicode_ci;\` ); } function insertData(connection) { return
connection.execute( \"INSERT INTO upsuninfo (username, departname,
created) VALUES (\'upsun\', \'Deploy Friday\', \'2023-09-29\')\" ); }
function readData(connection) { return connection.query(\"SELECT \* FROM
upsuninfo\"); } function dropTable(connection) { return
connection.execute(\"DROP TABLE upsuninfo\"); } // Define the main
route. app.get(\'/\', async function(req, res){ // Connect to MariaDB.
const connection = await openConnection(); await
createTable(connection); await insertData(connection); const \[rows\] =
await readData(connection); const droppedResult = await
dropTable(connection); // Make the output. const outputString = \`Hello,
World! - A simple Express web framework template for Upsun MariaDB
Tests: \* Connect and add row: - Row ID (1): \${rows\[0\].uid} -
Username (upsun): \${rows\[0\].username} - Department (Deploy Friday):
\${rows\[0\].departname} - Created (2023-09-29): \${rows\[0\].created}
\* Delete row: - Status (0): \${droppedResult\[0\].warningStatus}\`;
res.set(\'Content-Type\', \'text/plain\'); res.send(outputString); });
// Get PORT and start the server app.listen(port, function() {
console.log(\`Listening on port \${port}\`) }); \`\`\` Commit and deploy
your changes: \`\`\`bash {} git add package.json package-lock.json
index.js && git commit -m \"adding MariaDb database service\" upsun push
upsun environment:url \--primary \`\`\` \## 4. Merge to production When
satisfied with your changes, merge them to the main branch: \`\`\`bash
{} upsun merge \`\`\`

### Note

You can adjust your project resources at any time.

\## 5. Remove the feature branch Then, remove the feature branch:
\`\`\`bash {} upsun checkout main git pull upsun main upsun
environment:delete add-mysql-database git fetch \--prune \`\`\`

### Note

When the `environment:delete` CLI command is run, the CLI suggests you
deactivate and delete your `add-mysql-database` environment. Make sure
you opt in.

\## Tips & Tricks You can get your project\'s relationship information
using the following command: \`\`\`bash {} upsun relationships \...
database: - username: user scheme: mysql service: mariadb fragment: null
ip: 198.12.123.45 hostname:
abcdefghijklm1234567890123.mariadb.service.\_..platformsh.site public:
false cluster: abcdefgh1234567-add-mysql-database-abcd123 host:
mariadb.internal rel: mysql query: is_master: true path: main password:
\'\' type: \'mariadb:10.6\' port: 3306 host_mapped: false url:
\'mysql://user:@mariadb.internal:3306/main\' \`\`\` #Add a database Once
Your Strapi application has been deployed on Upsun, you might want to
add and configure a service to your application. This guide will show
you how to provision and connect to two different databases on Upsun: -
PostgreSQL - Oracle MySQL \## 1. Branch Like all updates to your Upsun
projects, first create a new dedicated environment to test this change.
\`\`\`bash git checkout -b upgrade-db \`\`\` \## 2. Install the Node.js
package

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   PostgreSQL
-   Oracle MySQL

`yarn add pg` `yarn add mysql` \## 3. Add a new service Add a new
service to your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   PostgreSQL
-   Oracle MySQL

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: source: root: "/" type: "nodejs:20" [...] services: database: type: postgresql:16`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: source: root: "/" type: "nodejs:20" [...] services: database: type: oracle-mysql:8.0`
\## 4. Add a new relationship Add a new relationship to your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file to allow access to the new service

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   PostgreSQL
-   Oracle MySQL

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: source: root: "/" type: "nodejs:20" [...] relationships: database: services: database: type: postgresql:16`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: source: root: "/" type: "nodejs:20" [...] relationships: database: services: database: type: oracle-mysql:8.0`
\## 5. Update \`.environment\` When you previously ran \`upsun
project:init\`, the command generated some Strapi-specific environment
variables: \`\`\`bash {} \# Set Strapi-specific environment variables
export DATABASE_HOST=\"\$DB_HOST\" export DATABASE_PORT=\"\$DB_PORT\"
export DATABASE_NAME=\"\$DB_PATH\" export
DATABASE_USERNAME=\"\$DB_USERNAME\" export
DATABASE_PASSWORD=\"\$DB_PASSWORD\" export
DATABASE_SCHEME=\"\$DB_SCHEME\" \# Set secrets needed by Strapi, if they
are not set \# Prefer setting these as project secret variables with
upsun variable:create env:SECRET_NAME \--sensitive=true if \[\[ -z
\"\$ADMIN_JWT_SECRET\" \]\]; then export
ADMIN_JWT_SECRET=\"\$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\" fi if \[\[ -z
\"\$JWT_SECRET\" \]\]; then export
JWT_SECRET=\"\$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\" fi if \[\[ -z
\"\$API_TOKEN_SALT\" \]\]; then export
API_TOKEN_SALT=\"\$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\" fi if \[\[ -z
\"\$APP_KEYS\" \]\]; then export APP_KEYS=\"\$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\"
fi \`\`\` Upsun will actually generate service credentials automatically
for you in the runtime container, so we don\'t need the first half of
this file anymore. Remove the first block (pertaining to \`DATABASE\`
credentials). Then, add a single additional variable that will set the
\`DATABASE_CLIENT\` variable at the appropriate time:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   PostgreSQL
-   Oracle MySQL

.environment
`# Set secrets needed by Strapi, if they are not set # Prefer setting these as project secret variables with upsun variable:create env:SECRET_NAME --sensitive=true if [[ -z "$ADMIN_JWT_SECRET" ]]; then export ADMIN_JWT_SECRET="$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY" fi if [[ -z "$JWT_SECRET" ]]; then export JWT_SECRET="$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY" fi if [[ -z "$API_TOKEN_SALT" ]]; then export API_TOKEN_SALT="$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY" fi if [[ -z "$APP_KEYS" ]]; then export APP_KEYS="$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY" fi # Switch to configure to the production database service _only_ at deploy time. if [[ -z "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT" ]]; then export DATABASE_CLIENT="postgres" fi`
.environment
`# Set secrets needed by Strapi, if they are not set # Prefer setting these as project secret variables with upsun variable:create env:SECRET_NAME --sensitive=true if [[ -z "$ADMIN_JWT_SECRET" ]]; then export ADMIN_JWT_SECRET="$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY" fi if [[ -z "$JWT_SECRET" ]]; then export JWT_SECRET="$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY" fi if [[ -z "$API_TOKEN_SALT" ]]; then export API_TOKEN_SALT="$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY" fi if [[ -z "$APP_KEYS" ]]; then export APP_KEYS="$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY" fi # Switch to configure to the production database service _only_ at deploy time. if [[ -z "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT" ]]; then export DATABASE_CLIENT="mysql" fi`
\## 6. Push to the environment Commit and push the changes to the Upsun
environment: \`\`\`bash git commit -am \"Add a new service\" git push
origin upgrade-db \`\`\`

### Note

If you are using Upsun as your primary remote, you can use the
`upsun branch` and `upsun push` commands directly. If instead you had
already set up an integration to GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket, make sure
to open a pull/merge request to judge the revision.

#Symfony integration Symfony has a special integration with Upsun that
makes it easier to use Upsun for Symfony projects. \*\*When using the
Symfony integration, you are contributing financially to the Symfony
project.\*\* The Symfony integration is automatically enabled when: -
You run the \`symfony new\` command with the \`\--upsun\` option - You
run \`symfony project:init \--upsun\` on an existing project to
automatically generate the Upsun configuration If you already have a
Upsun configuration without the Symfony integration, enable it by adding
the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: app: hooks:
build: \| set -x -e curl -fs https://get.symfony.com/cloud/configurator
\| bash \# \... \`\`\` The \*\*configurator\*\* enables the following
integration: - It installs some helper scripts that you can use as the
\[default build and deploy hook scripts\](#hooks): -
\[\`symfony-build\`\](#symfony-build) -
\[\`symfony-deploy\`\](#symfony-deploy) -
\[\`php-ext-install\`\](#php-ext-install) - It adds some \[extra
tools\](#tools) - It defines \[additional infrastructure environment
variables\](./environment-variables#symfony-environment-variables) and
\[environment variables for all
services\](./environment-variables#service-environment-variables) \##
Tools The \*\*configurator\*\* (\`curl -fs
https://get.symfony.com/cloud/configurator \| bash\`) is a script
specially crafted for Upsun. It ensures that projects are always using
the latest version of the following tools: -
\[croncape\](./crons#use-croncape) for cron feedback - \[Symfony
CLI\](https://symfony.com/download) -
\[Composer\](https://getcomposer.org/download/) \## Hooks The \`hooks\`
section defines the scripts that Upsun runs at specific times of an
application lifecycle: - The \[build
hook\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#build-hook) is run during
the build process - The \[deploy
hook\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#deploy-hook) is run during
the deployment process - The \[post-deploy
hook\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#post-deploy-hook) is run
after the deploy hook, once the application container starts accepting
connections Here\'s the default \`hooks\` section optimized for Symfony
projects: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: app: hooks: build: \| set -x -e
curl -s https://get.symfony.com/cloud/configurator \| bash symfony-build
deploy: \| set -x -e symfony-deploy \`\`\`

### Warning

As each hook is executed as a single script, a hook is considered as
failed only if the final command fails. To have your hooks fail on the
first failed command, start your scripts with `set -e`.

For more information, see
\[Hooks\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison). To gain a better
understanding of how hooks relate to each other when building and
deploying an app, see the \[Upsun
philosophy\](/learn/overview/philosophy.md).

### Tip

During the `deploy` or `post_deploy` hooks, you can execute actions for
a specific environment type only. To do so, in your
`.upsun/config.yaml`file, use the `PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE`
environment variable) in a condition:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: hooks: deploy: | if [ "PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" != "production" ]; then symfony console app:dev:anonymize fi `

\### symfony-build \*\*symfony-build\*\* is the script that builds a
Symfony app in an optimized way for Upsun. Use it as the main build
script in your \`build\` hook. \*\*symfony-build\*\* performs the
following actions: - Removes the development frontend file (Symfony
\<4) - Installs PHP extensions through the \[\`php-ext-install\`
script\](#php-ext-install) - Installs application dependencies using
Composer - Optimizes the autoloader - Builds the Symfony cache in an
optimized way to limit the time it takes to deploy - Installs the
JavaScript dependencies via npm or Yarn - Builds the production assets
using Encore To override the flags used by Composer, use the
\`\$COMPOSER_FLAGS\` environment variable: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: hooks: build: \| set -x -e curl -s
https://get.symfony.com/cloud/configurator \| bash COMPOSER\_
symfony-build \`\`\` When installing dependencies, the script
automatically detects if the app is using npm or Yarn. To disable the
JavaScript dependencies and asset building, set \`NO_NPM\` or
\`NO_YARN\` to \`1\` depending on your package manager. To customize
Node/npm/Yarn behaviors, prefix the \`symfony-build\` script with the
following environment variables: - \`NODE_VERSION\`: to pinpoint the
Node version that nvm is going to install. The default value is
\`\--lts\`. - \`YARN_FLAGS\`: flags to pass to \`yarn install\`. There
is no default value. \### symfony-deploy Use \*\*symfony-deploy\*\* as
the main deploy script in the \`deploy\` hook. It only works if you\'re
using the \[\`symfony-build\` script\](#symfony-build) in your \`build\`
hook. \*\*symfony-deploy\*\* performs the following actions: - Replaces
the Symfony cache with the cache generated during the build hook -
Migrates the database when the Doctrine migration bundle is used \###
php-ext-install You can use the \*\*php-ext-install\*\* script to
compile and install PHP extensions not provided out of the box by Upsun,
or when you need a specific version of an extension. The script is
written specifically for Upsun to ensure fast and reliable setup during
the build step. \*\*php-ext-install\*\* currently supports three ways of
fetching sources: - From \[PECL\](https://pecl.php.net/):
\`php-ext-install redis 5.3.2\` - From a URL: \`php-ext-install redis
https://github.com/phpredis/phpredis/archive/5.3.2.tar.gz\` - From a Git
repository: \`php-ext-install redis
https://github.com/phpredis/phpredis.git 5.3.2\` To ensure your app can
be built properly, run \`php-ext-install\` after the
\[configurator\](#tools) but before \[symfony-build\](#symfony-build):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: hooks: build: \| set -x -e curl -s
https://get.symfony.com/cloud/configurator \| bash php-ext-install redis
5.3.2 symfony-build \`\`\` When installing
\[PECL\](https://pecl.php.net/) PHP extensions, you can configure them
directly as \*variables\* instead: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
variables: php-ext: redis: 5.3.2 \`\`\`

### Note

The source code is cached between builds so compilation is skipped if
it's already been done. Changing the source of downloads or the version
invalidates this cache.

\### Advanced Node configuration If you need to use the Node
installation setup by \[symfony-build\](#symfony-build), use the
following configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: hooks:
build: \| set -x -e curl -s https://get.symfony.com/cloud/configurator
\| bash symfony-build \# Setup everything to use the Node installation
unset NPM_CONFIG_PREFIX export NVM_DIR=\${SPLATFORM_APP_DIR}/.nvm set +x
&& . \"\${NVM_DIR}/nvm.sh\" use \--lts && set -x \# Starting from here,
everything is setup to use the same Node yarn encore dev \`\`\` If you
want to use two different Node versions, use the following configuration
instead: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: hooks: build: \| set -x -e
curl -s https://get.symfony.com/cloud/configurator \| bash symfony-build
cd web/js_app unset NPM_CONFIG_PREFIX export
NVM_DIR=\${PLATFORM_APP_DIR}/.nvm NODE_VERSION=8 yarn-install \# Setup
everything to use the Node installation set +x && .
\"\${NVM_DIR}/nvm.sh\" use 8 && set -x \# Starting from here, everything
is setup to use Node 8 yarn build \--environment=prod \`\`\`

Back

Configure environment variables

#Configure environment variables By default, Upsun exposes some
\[environment
variables\](/development/variables/use-variables#use-provided-variables).
Laravel relies heavily on environment variables to configure application
services (such as the database or the mailer). Therefore, the default
configuration generated by \`upsun project:init\` includes the
\[environment variables for all the
services\](#service-environment-variables) connected to your app in the
\`.environment\` file.

### Tip

You can tweak the `.environment` configuration to fit your needs and add
specific project-level variables. You may need a variable to change per
environment. If so, use the `upsun variable` command to add all the
needed per-environment variables.

\## Default environment variables Upsun automatically exposes
\[environment
variables\](/development/variables/use-variables#use-provided-variables)
about the app and its infrastructure. Assuming that MySQL, PostgreSQL,
and Redis services have been added to your environment, and that the app
has been granted access to those services via the following
\[relationships\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \[\...\] relationships: mysql: \...
postgresql: \... redis: \... \`\`\` You can transpose these variables to
set up Laravel\'s default configuration in a \`.environment\` file:
\`\`\`bash {} \# Set MySQL database environment variables export
DB_HOST=\"\$MYSQL_HOST\" export DB_PORT=\"\$MYSQL_PORT\" export
DB_PATH=\"\$MYSQL_PATH\" export DB_USERNAME=\"\$MYSQL_USERNAME\" export
DB_PASSWORD=\"\$MYSQL_PASSWORD\" export DB_SCHEME=\"\$MYSQL_SCHEME\"
export
DATABASE_URL=\"\${DB_SCHEME}://\${DB_USERNAME}:\${DB_PASSWORD}@\${DB_HOST}:\${DB_PORT}/\${DB_PATH}\"
\# Or for PostgreSQL export DB_HOST=\"\$POSTGRESQL_HOST\" export
DB_PORT=\"\$POSTGRESQL_PORT\" export DB_PATH=\"\$POSTGRESQL_PATH\"
export DB_USERNAME=\"\$POSTGRESQL_USERNAME\" export
DB_PASSWORD=\"\$POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD\" export
DB_SCHEME=\"\$POSTGRESQL_SCHEME\" export
DATABASE_URL=\"\${DB_SCHEME}://\${DB_USERNAME}:\${DB_PASSWORD}@\${DB_HOST}:\${DB_PORT}/\${DB_PATH}\"
\# Set Laravel-specific environment variables export
DB_CONNECTION=\"\$DB_SCHEME\" export DB_DATABASE=\"\$DB_PATH\" \# Set
Cache environment variables export CACHE_HOST=\"\$REDIS_HOST\" export
CACHE_PORT=\"\$REDIS_PORT\" export CACHE_SCHEME=\"\$REDIS_SCHEME\"
export CACHE_URL=\"\${CACHE_SCHEME}://\${CACHE_HOST}:\${CACHE_PORT}\" \#
Set Redis environment variables export REDIS_URL=\"\$CACHE_URL\" \`\`\`
\## Service environment variables Each exposed environment variable is
prefixed by the relationship name. For example, if you have the
following relationships in your configuration: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: relationships: database: service: \"securitydb\"
endpoint: \"postgresql\" \`\`\` The environment variables for the
database service is prefixed by \`DATABASE\_\`, which is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship. For example, you could
have a \`DATABASE_URL\` environment variable.

### Note

Environment variables aren't exposed when the build hook script is
running, as services aren't available during the [build
process](/learn/overview/build-deploy.html#the-build). To add specific
variables available during the build, run `upsun variable:create`.

\### Emails Upsun provides a SMTP service for sending emails. To
configure email in Laravel, add the following mapping to your
\`.environment\` file: \`\`\`bash {} \# Email export MAIL\_ export
MAIL_HOST=\"\${PLATFORM_SMTP_HOST}\" export MAIL\_ \`\`\` \### HTTP If
your project has multiple apps, the configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`SOME_SERVICE\` is the
upper-cased version of the key defined in the relationship): -
\`SOME_SERVICE_URL\`: The full URL of the service - \`SOME_SERVICE_IP\`:
The HTTP service IP - \`SOME_SERVICE_PORT\`: The HTTP service port -
\`SOME_SERVICE_SCHEME\`: The HTTP service scheme -
\`SOME_SERVICE_HOST\`: The HTTP service host \### MySQL/MariaDB The
\[MySQL/MariaDB\](/add-services/mysql) configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`DATABASE\` is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship above): -
\`DATABASE_URL\`: The database URL (in PHP or Go format depending on
your app) - \`DATABASE_SERVER\`: The database server -
\`DATABASE_DRIVER\`: The database driver - \`DATABASE_VERSION\`: The
database version - \`DATABASE_HOST\`: The database host -
\`DATABASE_PORT\`: The database port - \`DATABASE_NAME\`: The database
name - \`DATABASE_DATABASE\`: Alias for \`DATABASE_NAME\` -
\`DATABASE_USERNAME\`: The database username - \`DATABASE_PASSWORD\`:
The database password

### Tip

The database version and a default charset are included in the database
URL. To override them, use the `DATABASE_VERSION` and `DATABASE_CHARSET`
environment variables respectively.

\### PostgreSQL The \[PostgreSQL\](/add-services/postgresql)
configuration is exposed via the following environment variables (where
\`DATABASE\` is the upper-cased version of the key defined in the
relationship): - \`DATABASE_URL\`: The database URL (in PHP or Go format
depending on your app) - \`DATABASE_SERVER\`: The database server -
\`DATABASE_DRIVER\`: The database driver - \`DATABASE_VERSION\`: The
database version - \`DATABASE_HOST\`: The database host -
\`DATABASE_PORT\`: The database port - \`DATABASE_NAME\`: The database
name - \`DATABASE_DATABASE\`: Alias for \`DATABASE_NAME\` -
\`DATABASE_USERNAME\`: The database username - \`DATABASE_PASSWORD\`:
The database password

### Tip

The database version and a default charset are included in the database
URL. To override them, use the `DATABASE_VERSION` and `DATABASE_CHARSET`
environment variables respectively.

\### Redis The \[Redis\](/add-services/redis) configuration is exposed
via the following environment variables (where \`REDIS\` is the
upper-cased version of the key defined in the relationship): -
\`REDIS_URL\`: The Redis URL - \`REDIS_HOST\`: The Redis host -
\`REDIS_PORT\`: The Redis port - \`REDIS_SCHEME\`: The Redis scheme You
can specify the Redis client in your \`.environment\` file: \`\`\`bash
{} export REDIS\_ \`\`\` \### Memcached The
\[Memcached\](/add-services/memcached) configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`CACHE\` is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship): - \`CACHE_HOST\` -
\`CACHE_PORT\` - \`CACHE_IP\` \### Elasticsearch The
\[Elasticsearch\](/add-services/elasticsearch) configuration is exposed
via the following environment variables (where \`ELASTICSEARCH\` is the
upper-cased version of the key defined in the relationship): -
\`ELASTICSEARCH_URL\`: The full URL of the Elasticsearch service -
\`ELASTICSEARCH_HOST\`: The Elasticsearch host - \`ELASTICSEARCH_PORT\`:
The Elasticsearch port - \`ELASTICSEARCH_SCHEME\`: The Elasticsearch
protocol scheme (\`http\` or \`https\`) \### RabbitMQ The
\[RabbitMQ\](/add-services/rabbitmq) configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`RABBITMQ\` is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship): - \`RABBITMQ_URL\`: The
RabbitMQ standardized URL - \`RABBITMQ_SERVER\`: The RabbitMQ server -
\`RABBITMQ_HOST\`: The RabbitMQ host - \`RABBITMQ_PORT\`: The RabbitMQ
port - \`RABBITMQ_SCHEME\`: The RabbitMQ scheme - \`RABBITMQ_USER\`: The
RabbitMQ username - \`RABBITMQ_USERNAME\`: The RabbitMQ username -
\`RABBITMQ_PASSWORD\`: The RabbitMQ password \### MongoDB The
\[MongoDB\](/add-services/mongodb) configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`MONGODB\` is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship): - \`MONGODB_SERVER\` -
\`MONGODB_HOST\` - \`MONGODB_PORT\` - \`MONGODB_SCHEME\` -
\`MONGODB_NAME\` - \`MONGODB_DATABASE\` - \`MONGODB_USER\` -
\`MONGODB_USERNAME\` - \`MONGODB_PASSWORD\` \### InfluxDB The
\[InfluxDB\](/add-services/influxdb) configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`TIMEDB\` is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship): - \`TIMEDB_SCHEME\` -
\`TIMEDB_HOST\` - \`TIMEDB_PORT\` - \`TIMEDB_IP\` \### Kafka The
\[Apache Kafka\](/add-services/kafka) configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`KAFKA\` is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship): - \`KAFKA_URL\` -
\`KAFKA_SCHEME\` - \`KAFKA_HOST\` - \`KAFKA_PORT\` - \`KAFKA_IP\`

Back

Set up Redis

#Configure environment variables By default, Upsun exposes some
\[environment
variables\](/development/variables/use-variables#use-provided-variables).
If you\'re using the \[Symfony integration\](./integration), more
\[infrastructure environment variables\](#symfony-environment-variables)
related to Symfony are defined. As Symfony relies heavily on environment
variables to configure application services (such as the database or the
mailer DSN), the Symfony integration automatically defines \[environment
variables for all the services\](#service-environment-variables)
connected to your app.

### Tip

The code that defines these additional environment variables is part of
the open-source Symfony CLI tool. Check the code for
[infrastructure](https://github.com/symfony-cli/symfony-cli/blob/main/envs/remote.go#L139)
and
[service](https://github.com/symfony-cli/symfony-cli/blob/main/envs/envs.go#L110)
environment variables on GitHub.

\## Symfony environment variables Upsun exposes \[environment
variables\](/development/variables/use-variables#use-provided-variables)
about the app and its infrastructure. The Symfony integration exposes
more environment variables: - \`APP_ENV\` is set to \`prod\` by default.
You can manually override this value for a preview environment by
setting the \`SYMFONY_ENV\` environment variable to \`dev\`, and remove
it when done. - \`APP_DEBUG\` is set to \`0\` by default. You can
manually override this value for a preview environment by setting the
\`SYMFONY_DEBUG\` environment variable to \`1\`, and remove it when
done. - \`APP_SECRET\` is set to the value of
\`PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\`, which is a random and unique value for all
Upsun projects. It overrides the value configured in the \`.env\` file
of your app. - \`MAILFROM\` is set to a random value. This value is used
as a \`From\` header when using \[croncape\](./crons#use-croncape). -
\`SYMFONY_IS_WORKER\` is set to \`1\` when the container is running in
the context of a worker (instead of the main application container). -
\`SYMFONY_CACHE_DIR\` (only available during the build hook execution):
The absolute path to a subdirectory of your build cache directory. Note
that the build cache directory is persisted between builds but
\*\*isn\'t\*\* deployed. It's a good place to store build artifacts,
such as downloaded files that can be reused between builds.

### Tip

This directory is shared by **all** builds on **all** branches. Make
sure your [build
hook](/get-started/stacks/symfony/integration.html#hooks) accounts for
that.

If you need to clear the build cache directory, run the \`symfony
upsun:project:clear-build-cache\` command. -
\`SYMFONY_PROJECT_DEFAULT_ROUTE_URL\` (only defined at \*\*runtime\*\*):
The default endpoint serving your project. Use this variable to avoid
hard-coding domains that can be used to reach preview environments.
Parts of the URL are also exposed as their own variables using the
following syntax: \`SYMFONY_PROJECT_DEFAULT_ROUTE\_\` followed by the
name of the part (\`SCHEME\`, \`DOMAIN\`, \`PORT\`, and \`PATH\`).
Guessing the default endpoint can prove difficult for multi-routes or
multi-app projects. In such cases, the following preference order is
used: 1. Project-wide route defined only by \`{default}\` or \`{all}\`
(no path) 2. Project-wide route defined by \`www.{default}\` or
\`www.{all}\` (no path) 3. Route for the \*\*current application\*\*
including \`{default}\` or \`{all}\` (might include a path) 4. Route for
the \*\*current application\*\* including \`www.{default}\` or
\`www.{all}\` (might include a path) 5. First route for the current
application 6. First route for the whole project When several routes
match a rule, the first one wins, the user order is kept. There\'s no
preference regarding protocols.

### Tip

If you have a multi-app project containing several publicly reachable
apps, you might need to determine the current application endpoint (for
webhooks for example) and the project endpoint (to send emails for
example).

In this case, you can use an additional
`SYMFONY_APPLICATION_DEFAULT_ROUTE_*` set of environment variables. The
same rules are applied to determine their value, but only routes
matching the current application are evaluated.

\## Service environment variables When using the \[Symfony
integration\](./integration), information about services are exposed via
environment variables. To list all of the exposed environment variables,
run the following command: \`\`\`bash symfony ssh \-- symfony var:export
\--multiline \`\`\` Each exposed environment variable is prefixed by the
relationship name. For example, if you have the following
\[relationships\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
in your configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: relationships:
database: service: securitydb endpoint: postgresql \`\`\` The
environment variables for the database service is prefixed by
\`DATABASE\_\` which is the upper-cased version of the key defined in
the relationship. For example, you could have a \`DATABASE_URL\`
environment variable. Most environment variable names are derived from
the relationship and service names. But some are defined based on
Symfony conventions, such as \[\`MAILER_DSN\`\](#emails).

### Note

Environment variables aren't exposed when the build hook script is
running as services aren't available during the [build
process](/learn/overview/build-deploy.html#the-build).

\### Emails The configuration is exposed via the following environment
variables: - \`MAILER_ENABLED\`: 1 if outgoing emails are enabled, 0
otherwise - \`MAILER_DSN\`/\`MAILER_URL\`: The Symfony-compatible mailer
URL - \`MAILER_HOST\`: The SMTP server host - \`MAILER_PORT\`: The SMTP
server port - \`MAILER_TRANSPORT\`: The SMTP transport mode (\`smtp\`) -
\`MAILER_AUTH_MODE\`: The SMTP auth mode (\`plain\`) - \`MAILER_USER\`:
The SMTP server user - \`MAILER_PASSWORD\`: The SMTP server password
Symfony Mailer automatically uses the value of \`MAILER_DSN\`. \### HTTP
If your project has multiple apps, the configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`SOME_SERVICE\` is the
upper-cased version of the key defined in the relationship): -
\`SOME_SERVICE_URL\`: The full URL of the service - \`SOME_SERVICE_IP\`:
The HTTP service IP - \`SOME_SERVICE_PORT\`: The HTTP service port -
\`SOME_SERVICE_SCHEME\`: The HTTP service scheme -
\`SOME_SERVICE_HOST\`: The HTTP service host \### MySQL/MariaDB The
\[MySQL/MariaDB\](/add-services/mysql) configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`DATABASE\` is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship above): -
\`DATABASE_URL\`: The database URL (in PHP or Go format depending on
your app) - \`DATABASE_SERVER\`: The database server -
\`DATABASE_DRIVER\`: The database driver - \`DATABASE_VERSION\`: The
database version - \`DATABASE_HOST\`: The database host -
\`DATABASE_PORT\`: The database port - \`DATABASE_NAME\`: The database
name - \`DATABASE_DATABASE\`: Alias for \`DATABASE_NAME\` -
\`DATABASE_USERNAME\`: The database username - \`DATABASE_PASSWORD\`:
The database password

### Tip

The database version and a default charset are included in the database
URL. To override them, use the `DATABASE_VERSION` and `DATABASE_CHARSET`
environment variables respectively.

\### PostgreSQL The \[PostgreSQL\](/add-services/postgresql)
configuration is exposed via the following environment variables (where
\`DATABASE\` is the upper-cased version of the key defined in the
relationship): - \`DATABASE_URL\`: The database URL (in PHP or Go format
depending on your app) - \`DATABASE_SERVER\`: The database server -
\`DATABASE_DRIVER\`: The database driver - \`DATABASE_VERSION\`: The
database version - \`DATABASE_HOST\`: The database host -
\`DATABASE_PORT\`: The database port - \`DATABASE_NAME\`: The database
name - \`DATABASE_DATABASE\`: Alias for \`DATABASE_NAME\` -
\`DATABASE_USERNAME\`: The database username - \`DATABASE_PASSWORD\`:
The database password

### Tip

The database version and a default charset are included in the database
URL. To override them, use the `DATABASE_VERSION` and `DATABASE_CHARSET`
environment variables respectively.

\### Redis The \[Redis\](/add-services/redis) configuration is exposed
via the following environment variables (where \`REDIS\` is the
upper-cased version of the key defined in the relationship): -
\`REDIS_URL\`: The Redis URL - \`REDIS_HOST\`: The Redis host -
\`REDIS_PORT\`: The Redis port - \`REDIS_SCHEME\`: The Redis scheme \###
Memcached The \[Memcached\](/add-services/memcached) configuration is
exposed via the following environment variables (where \`CACHE\` is the
upper-cased version of the key defined in the relationship): -
\`CACHE_HOST\` - \`CACHE_PORT\` - \`CACHE_IP\` \### Elasticsearch The
\[Elasticsearch\](/add-services/elasticsearch) configuration is exposed
via the following environment variables (where \`ELASTICSEARCH\` is the
upper-cased version of the key defined in the relationship): -
\`ELASTICSEARCH_URL\`: The full URL of the Elasticsearch service -
\`ELASTICSEARCH_HOST\`: The Elasticsearch host - \`ELASTICSEARCH_PORT\`:
The Elasticsearch port - \`ELASTICSEARCH_SCHEME\`: The Elasticsearch
protocol scheme (\`http\` or \`https\`) \### Solr The \[Apache
Solr\](/add-services/solr) configuration is exposed via the following
environment variables (where \`SOLR\` is the upper-cased version of the
key defined in the relationship): - \`SOLR_HOST\`: The Solr host -
\`SOLR_PORT\`: The Solr port - \`SOLR_NAME\`: The Solr name -
\`SOLR_DATABASE\`: An alias for \`SOLR_NAME\` \### RabbitMQ The
\[RabbitMQ\](/add-services/rabbitmq) configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`RABBITMQ\` is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship): - \`RABBITMQ_URL\`: The
RabbitMQ standardized URL - \`RABBITMQ_SERVER\`: The RabbitMQ server -
\`RABBITMQ_HOST\`: The RabbitMQ host - \`RABBITMQ_PORT\`: The RabbitMQ
port - \`RABBITMQ_SCHEME\`: The RabbitMQ scheme - \`RABBITMQ_USER\`: The
RabbitMQ username - \`RABBITMQ_USERNAME\`: The RabbitMQ username -
\`RABBITMQ_PASSWORD\`: The RabbitMQ password \### MongoDB The
\[MongoDB\](/add-services/mongodb) configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`MONGODB\` is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship): - \`MONGODB_SERVER\` -
\`MONGODB_HOST\` - \`MONGODB_PORT\` - \`MONGODB_SCHEME\` -
\`MONGODB_NAME\` - \`MONGODB_DATABASE\` - \`MONGODB_USER\` -
\`MONGODB_USERNAME\` - \`MONGODB_PASSWORD\` \### InfluxDB The
\[InfluxDB\](/add-services/influxdb) configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`TIMEDB\` is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship): - \`TIMEDB_SCHEME\` -
\`TIMEDB_HOST\` - \`TIMEDB_PORT\` - \`TIMEDB_IP\` \### Kafka The
\[Apache Kafka\](/add-services/kafka) configuration is exposed via the
following environment variables (where \`KAFKA\` is the upper-cased
version of the key defined in the relationship): - \`KAFKA_URL\` -
\`KAFKA_SCHEME\` - \`KAFKA_HOST\` - \`KAFKA_PORT\` - \`KAFKA_IP\`

Back

Configure workers

#Set up Redis With Laravel, you can use Redis to handle session storage,
cache storage, and queues. \## 1. Add the Redis service 1. \[Add the
service\](/add-services.md#add-a-service) to your app configuration
using the \`services\` top-level key: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \[\...\]
redis: type: redis:7.0 \`\`\` 2. To connect the service to your app, add
the following relationship: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \[\...\]
relationships: redis: services: \[\...\] redis: type: redis:7.0 \`\`\`
\## 2. Configure your Redis service The \[Redis\](/add-services/redis)
configuration is exposed via the following environment variables (where
\`REDIS\` is the upper-cased version of the key defined in the
relationship): - \`REDIS_URL\`: The Redis URL - \`REDIS_HOST\`: The
Redis host - \`REDIS_PORT\`: The Redis port - \`REDIS_SCHEME\`: The
Redis scheme If the relationship is named \`redis\`, Laravel
automatically detects these variables and configure its own Redis driver
the right way. If not, you can map the variables in the \`.environment\`
file. You can specify the Redis client in your \`.environment\` file:
\`\`\`bash {} export REDIS\_ \`\`\`

### Note

If using `phpredis`, make sure you add `redis` in the list of PHP
`runtime` extensions in your `.upsun/config.yaml`:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: [...] runtime: extensions: - redis`

\## 3. Store the Laravel cache in Redis To enable cache storage in
Redis, add the following environment variable to your \`.environment\`
file: \`\`\`bash {} export CACHE\_ \`\`\` \## 4. Store Laravel sessions
in Redis Laravel relies on the \`SESSION_DRIVER\` variable to store
sessions. Therefore, add the following environment variable to your
\`.environment\` file: \`\`\`bash {} export SESSION\_ \`\`\` \## 5. Use
Redis for Laravel queues For a basic queueing system, configure the
\`QUEUE_CONNECTION\` in your \`.environment\` file as follows:
\`\`\`bash {} export QUEUE\_ \`\`\` For more information, see the
\[Laravel Queues documentation\](https://laravel.com/docs/master/queues)
and Upsun\'s \[Horizon configuration page\](./laravel-horizon).

Back

Handle queues with Horizon

#Handle queues with Horizon \[Laravel
Horizon\](https://laravel.com/docs/master/horizon#main-content) provides
an appealing dashboard and code-driven configuration for your Laravel
powered Redis queues. Horizon allows you to monitor key metrics of your
queue system, such as job throughput, runtime, and job failures. \## 1.
Add Laravel Horizon

### Note

This procedure assumes you have followed the steps on [how to configure
Redis and
queues](/get-started/stacks/laravel/setup-redis.html#5-use-redis-for-laravel-queues).

1\. To add Laravel Horizon, run the following command: \`\`\`bash {}
composer require laravel/horizon && php artisan horizon:install \`\`\`
2. Add the \`install\` command to your \`build\` hook in your app
configuration, so it\'s run on every deploy. \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: \[\...\] hooks: build: \| set -eux composer \--no-ansi
\--no-interaction install \--no-progress \--prefer-dist
\--optimize-autoloader \--no-dev php artisan horizon:install \`\`\` \##
2. Create a worker to run Horizon To run Horizon on your project, you
need to add a separate
\[worker\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#workers). To
do so, use the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: \[\...\] workers: horizon: commands: start: \| php artisan
horizon \`\`\` To enable the worker, push your changes to Upsun:
\`\`\`bash {} git add . git commit -m \"Enable Laravel Horizon\" upsun
push \`\`\` A new container is started automatically. It will spawn the
Horizon process after the next deploy. \## 3. Access your Horizon
dashboard If you have restricted access to Horizon in your
\`HorizonServiceProvider.php\`, log in to your app through the web.
Then, go to \`/horizon\` to access your Horizon dashboard. \![Laravel
Horizon Dashboard\](/images/guides/laravel/horizon-dashboard.png
\"0.5\") \## 4. Optional: Customize Horizon Horizon handles jobs that
are populated by the queue. If you need to customize how Horizon works
(queues, processes, etc.), see the official \[Laravel Horizon
documentation\](https://laravel.com/docs/master/horizon#main-content).

### Warning

Web and worker containers don't share mount targets. You can't share
files between those containers using the filesystem. To share data
between containers, use services.

See more information on
[workers](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#workers).

Note that you can customize the resources of your Horizon worker
container from the Upsun Console. \![Laravel Horizon
Resources\](/images/guides/laravel/horizon-resources.png \"0.5\") For
more information, see how to \[configure
resources\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.md).

Back

Set up cron jobs

#ClickHouse ClickHouse is a high-performance column-oriented,
distributed, OLAP (Online Analytical Processing) database. It allows you
to generate real-time analytical data reports using SQL queries. For
more information, see the \[ClickHouse
documentation\](https://ClickHouse.com/docs).

### Note

Upsun supports ClickHouse with the following limitations:

-   High availability of service isn't supported.
-   You can only configure single-node ClickHouse clusters.

\## Supported versions - 24.3 - 23.8 Upsun plans on supporting long-term
support ClickHouse versions in priority. \## Relationship reference For
each service \[defined via a relationship\](#usage-example) to your
application, Upsun automatically generates corresponding environment
variables within your application container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format.
Here is example information available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`CLICKHOUSE_USERNAME=main CLICKHOUSE_FRAGMENT= CLICKHOUSE_IP=123.456.78.90 CLICKHOUSE_CLUSTER=azertyuiop-main-afdwftq CLICKHOUSE_HOST=clickhouse.internal CLICKHOUSE_PATH=main CLICKHOUSE_QUERY={'is_master': True} CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD=ChangeMe CLICKHOUSE_PORT=9000 CLICKHOUSE_HOST_MAPPED=false CLICKHOUSE_SERVICE=clickhouse CLICKHOUSE_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.clickhouse.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site CLICKHOUSE_EPOCH=0 CLICKHOUSE_REL=clickhouse CLICKHOUSE_SCHEME=https/http CLICKHOUSE_TYPE=clickhouse:24.3 CLICKHOUSE_PUBLIC=false`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "username": "main", "fragment": null, "ip": "123.456.78.90", "cluster": "azertyuiop-main-afdwftq", "host": "clickhouse.internal", "path": "main", "query": { "is_master": true }, "password": "ChangeMe", "port": 9000, "host_mapped": false, "service": "clickhouse", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.clickhouse.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "epoch": 0, "rel": "clickhouse", "scheme": "https", "type": "clickhouse:24.3", "public": false }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_CLICKHOUSE_HOST=="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.clickhouse[0].host')"`
\## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`clickhouse\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the
service container. Must be unique within a project. : type: clickhouse:
\`\`\` Note that changing the name of the service replaces it with a
brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back up your data
before changing the service. \### 2. Define the relationship To define
the relationship, use one of the following endpoints. \####
\`clickhouse\` endpoint The \`clickhouse\` endpoint allows you to use
the Native Protocol port (also known as ClickHouse TCP protocol). This
protocol is used by ClickHouse apps and processes such as
\`clickhouse-server\`, \`clickhouse-client\`, and native ClickHouse
tools. It is also used for inter-server communication for distributed
queries. Use the following configuration:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like.

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: clickhouse`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
but it's best if they're distinct. With this definition, the application
container (`<APP_NAME>`) now has access to the service via the
corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

\#### \`clickhouse-http\` endpoint The \`clickhouse-http\` endpoint
allows you to use the HTTP API Port for HTTP requests. This protocol is
used by
\[JDBC\](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/jdbc/),
\[ODBC\](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/odbc/microsoft-open-database-connectivity-odbc?view=sql-server-ver16),
and web interfaces. Use the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: \# The name of the app container. Must be unique within a
project. : \# Relationships enable access from this app to a given
service. \# The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set
service name and endpoint. \# See the Application reference for all
options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: :
service: endpoint: clickhouse-http services: \# The name of the service
container. Must be unique within a project. : type: clickhouse: \`\`\`
You can define \`\`\`\` and \`\`\`\` as you like, so long as it\'s
unique between all defined services and relationships and matches in
both the application and services configuration. With this definition,
the application container (\`\`\`\`) now has access to the service via
the corresponding \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables).
\### Example configuration

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   With `clickhouse` default endpoint
-   With `clickhouse` explicit endpoint
-   With `clickhouse-http` endpoint

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: clickhouse: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. clickhouse: type: clickhouse:24`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: clickhouse: service: clickhouse endpoint: clickhouse services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. clickhouse: type: clickhouse:24.3`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: clickhouse: service: clickhouse endpoint: clickhouse-http services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. clickhouse: type: clickhouse:24.3`

If you want to change the `clickhouse` endpoint to `clickhouse-http`,
you need to use explicit endpoint definition as it defaults to
`clickhouse` endpoint when using default endpoint (aka. SERVICE_NAME as
relationship definition).

\## Multiple databases You can configure multiple databases, much like
\[with PostgreSQL\](/add-services/postgresql.md#multiple-databases). To
do so, you can use a configuration similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml
{} \# Complete list of all available properties:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/app-reference.html applications:
myapp: \# Relationships enable access from this app to a given service.
\# The example below shows configuration with explicitly set service
names and endpoints. \# See the Application reference for all options
for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships:
clickhouse-admin: service: clickhouse endpoint: admin
clickhouse-reporter: service: clickhouse endpoint: reporter
clickhouse-importer: service: clickhouse endpoint: importer services:
clickhouse: type: clickhouse:24.3 configuration: databases: - main -
legacy endpoints: admin: port: 9000 \# binary port privileges: main:
admin legacy: admin reporter: default_database: main port: 8123 \# http
port privileges: main: ro importer: default_database: legacy port: 9000
\# binary port privileges: legacy: rw \`\`\` #Configure workers Workers
(or consumers) are a great way to off-load processing in the background
to make an app as fast as possible. You can implement workers in Symfony
smoothly thanks to the \[Messenger
component\](https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/messenger.html).
To deploy a worker, add an entry under the \`workers\` section \[in your
app configuration\](/create-apps/\_index.md): \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: workers: mails: commands: start: symfony console
messenger:consume \--time-limit=60 \--memory-limit=128M \`\`\` Note that
the \`symfony\` binary is available when you use the \[Symfony
integration\](./integration) in your Upsun app configuration. On Upsun,
worker containers run the exact same code as the web container. The
container image is built only once and deployed multiple times in its
own container alongside the web container. The \*build\* hook and
dependencies might not vary but, as these containers are independent,
they can be customized the same way using common properties. The values
defined for the main container are used as default values.

### Tip

When the container is running in the context of a worker, the
`SYMFONY_IS_WORKER` environment variable is defined and set to `1`.

The \`commands.start\` key is required. It specifies the command you can
use to launch the application worker. If the command specified by the
\`start\` key terminates, it\'s restarted automatically. For more
information, see
\[Workers\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#workers).

### Warning

Web and worker containers don't share mounts targets. So you can't share
files between those containers using the filesystem. To share data
between containers, use services.

Back

Set up cron jobs

#Set up cron jobs Cron jobs allow you to run scheduled tasks at
specified times or intervals. While you can run your own custom tasks,
Laravel provides a scheduler to simplify the implementation. To
implement it, see the Laravel \[Task Scheduling
documentation\](https://laravel.com/docs/master/scheduling). \## Set up
a cron job To set up a cron job, update your Upsun configuration as
follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \[\...\] crons: snapshot:
spec: \* \* \* \* \* commands: start: \| php artisan schedule:run \>\>
/dev/null 2\>&1 \`\`\` \## Run cron jobs based on environment type To
run a command in a cron hook for specific environment types, use the
\`PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\` environment variable: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: \[\...\] crons: snapshot: spec: 0 5 \* \* \*
commands: start: \| \# only run for the production environment, aka main
branch if \[ \"\$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\" = \"production\" \]; then
php artisan schedule:run \>\> /dev/null 2\>&1 fi \`\`\` \## Run the
Laravel scheduler every minute Cron job execution on the default Upsun
offering are limited to once every 5 minutes. For more information, see
the \[documentation on
crons\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#crons). However,
you can add a
\[worker\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#workers) and
specify a start command that \[runs the scheduler every
minute\](https://laravel.com/docs/11.x/scheduling#running-the-scheduler-locally).
To do so, use the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
APP_NAME: \[\...\] workers: scheduler: commands: start: \| php artisan
schedule:work \`\`\`

### Warning

Web and worker containers don't share mount targets. You can't share
files between those containers using the filesystem. To share data
between containers, use services.

Back

Manage observability with Blackfire

#Set up cron jobs Cron jobs allow you to run scheduled tasks at
specified times or intervals. To set up a cron job, add a configuration
similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: crons:
snapshot: spec: 0 5 \* \* \* commands: start: \| croncape symfony \...
\`\`\` To run a command in a cron hook for specific environment types,
use the \`PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\` environment variable: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: myapp: crons: snapshot: spec: 0 5 \* \* \* commands:
start: \| \# only run for the production environment, aka main branch if
\[ \"\$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\" = \"production\" \]; then croncape
symfony \... fi \`\`\` \## Use croncape When using the \[Symfony
integration\](./integration), you can use \`croncape\` to get feedback
through emails when something goes wrong. To specify which email address
\`croncape\` must send the feedback emails to, add a \`MAILTO\`
environment variable. To do so, run the following command: \`\`\`bash
symfony var:create -y \--level=project \--name=env:MAILTO
\--value=sysadmin@example.com \`\`\` To ensure better reliability,
\`croncape\` sends the emails using: -
\`project-id@cron.noreply.platformsh.site\` as the sender address
(\`project-id+branch@cron.noreply.platformsh.site\` for non-main
environments) - the provided \[UpsunSMTP
service\](./environment-variables#emails), even if you define your own
\`MAILER\_\*\` environment variables To use a custom SMTP and/or custom
sender address, follow these steps: 1. To specify a sender address,
define a \[\`MAILFROM\` environment
variable\](./environment-variables.md#symfony-environment-variables). 2.
Define the mandatory \[environment variables to use your own email
service\](./environment-variables#emails). Note that only SMTP
connections are supported. 3. To disable the provided SMTP service, run
\`symfony upsun:env:info enable_smtp false\`.

### Note

To use `croncape`, SMTP must be enabled on the environment, where the
[`PLATFORM_SMTP_HOST`](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
environment variable is accessible. This variable is available, and SMTP
enabled, by default on all production environments.

This is not the case for preview (non-production) environments, where it
must be enabled with the command
`symfony cloud:env:info enable_smtp true`.

Back

Manage observability with Blackfire

#Elasticsearch (Search service) Elasticsearch is a distributed RESTful
search engine built for the cloud. See the \[Elasticsearch
documentation\](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/index.html)
for more information. \## Supported versions You can select the major
and minor version. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes
and the like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest
available patches.

-   8.5
-   7.17

\## Deprecated versions The following versions are still available in
your projects for free, but they\'re at their end of life and are no
longer receiving security updates from upstream.

-   7.10
-   7.9
-   7.7
-   7.5
-   7.2
-   6.8
-   6.5
-   5.4
-   5.2
-   2.4
-   1.7
-   1.4

To ensure your project remains stable in the future, switch to \[a
premium version\](#supported-versions). Alternatively, you can switch to
one of the latest, free versions of \[OpenSearch\](./opensearch.md). To
do so, follow the same procedure as for \[upgrading\](#upgrading). \##
Relationship reference For each service \[defined via a
relationship\](#usage-example) to your application, Upsun automatically
generates corresponding environment variables within your application
container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format. Here is example information
available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME= ELASTICSEARCH_SCHEME=http ELASTICSEARCH_SERVICE=elasticsearch ELASTICSEARCH_FRAGMENT=null ELASTICSEARCH_IP=123.456.78.90 ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.elasticsearch.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site ELASTICSEARCH_PORT=9200 ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER=azertyuiopqsdf-main-7rqtwti ELASTICSEARCH_HOST=elasticsearch.internal ELASTICSEARCH_REL=elasticsearch ELASTICSEARCH_PATH= ELASTICSEARCH_QUERY=[] ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD=ChangeMe ELASTICSEARCH_TYPE=elasticsearch:8.5 ELASTICSEARCH_PUBLIC=false ELASTICSEARCH_HOST_MAPPED=false`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "username": null, "scheme": "http", "service": "elasticsearch", "fragment": null, "ip": "123.456.78.90", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.elasticsearch.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "port": 9200, "cluster": "azertyuiopqsdf-main-7rqtwti", "host": "elasticsearch.internal", "rel": "elasticsearch", "path": null, "query": [], "password": "ChangeMe", "type": "elasticsearch:8.5", "public": false, "host_mapped": false }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_ELASTICSEARCH_HOST=="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.elasticsearch[0].host')"`
For \[premium versions\](#supported-versions), the service type is
\`elasticsearch-enterprise\`. \## Usage example \### 1. Configure the
service To define the service, use the \`elasticsearch\` type:
\`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the service container. Must be
unique within a project. : type: elasticsearch: \`\`\` If you're using a
\[premium version\](/add-services/elasticsearch.md#supported-versions),
use the \`\`elasticsearch-enterprise\`\` type instead. Note that
changing the name of the service replaces it with a brand new service
and all existing data is lost. Back up your data before changing the
service. \### 2. Define the relationship To define the relationship, use
the following configuration:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the *name* of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<SERVICE_NAME>` and its
corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: elasticsearch`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

\### Example configuration

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: elasticsearch: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. elasticsearch: type: elasticsearch:8.5`

If you're using a [premium
version](/add-services/elasticsearch.html#supported-versions), use the
`elasticsearch-enterprise` type instead.

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: elasticsearch: service: elasticsearch endpoint: elasticsearch services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. elasticsearch: type: elasticsearch:8.5`

If you're using a [premium
version](/add-services/elasticsearch.html#supported-versions), use the
`elasticsearch-enterprise` type instead.

\### Use in app To use the configured service in your app, add a
configuration file similar to the following to your project. Note that
configuration for \[premium versions\](#supported-versions) may differ
slightly.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: elasticsearch: services: elasticsearch: type: elasticsearch:8.5`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/myapp" # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: elasticsearch: service: elasticsearch endpoint: elasticsearch services: elasticsearch: type: elasticsearch:8.5`
This configuration defines a single application (\`myapp\`), whose
source code exists in the \`/myapp\` directory. \`myapp\` has access to
the \`elasticsearch\` service, via the corresponding \[service
environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
(as per \[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships). From this, \`myapp\` can retrieve
access credentials to the service through the \[relationship environment
variable\](/add-services/elasticsearch.md#relationship-reference).
\`\`\`bash {} \# Set environment variables for individual credentials,
\# For more information, please visit
https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables.
export ELASTIC_SCHEME=\${ELASTICSEARCH_SCHEME} export
ELASTIC_HOST=\${ELASTICSEARCH_HOST} export
ELASTIC_PORT=\${ELASTICSEARCH_PORT} \# Surface more common Elasticsearch
connection string variables for use in app. export
ELASTIC_USERNAME=\${ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME} export
ELASTIC_PASSWORD=\${ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD} export
ELASTIC_HOSTS=\[\"\$ELASTIC_SCHEME://\$ELASTIC_HOST:\$ELASTIC_PORT\"\]
\`\`\` The above file --- \`\`.environment\`\` in the \`\`myapp\`\`
directory --- is automatically sourced by Upsun into the runtime
environment, so that the variable \`\`ELASTIC_HOSTS\`\` can be used
within the application to connect to the service. Note that
\`\`ELASTIC_HOSTS\`\`, and all \[Upsun-service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
like \`\`ELASTICSEARCH_HOST\`\`, are environment-dependent. Unlike the
build produced for a given commit, they can't be reused across
environments and only allow your app to connect to a single service
instance on a single environment. A file very similar to this is
generated automatically for your when using the \`\`upsun ify\`\`
command to \[migrate a codebase to Upsun\](/get-started/\_index.md).

### Note

When you create an index on Elasticsearch, don't specify the
`number_of_shards` or `number_of_replicas` settings in your
Elasticsearch API call. These values are set automatically based on
available resources.

\## Authentication By default, Elasticsearch has no authentication. No
username or password is required to connect to it. Starting with
Elasticsearch 7.2 you may optionally enable HTTP Basic authentication.
To do so, include the following in your \`.upsun/config.yaml\`
configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the service
container. Must be unique within a project. elasticsearch: type:
elasticsearch:8.5 configuration: authentication: enabled: true \`\`\` If
you\'re using a \[premium version\](#supported-versions), use the
\`elasticsearch-enterprise\` type. That enables mandatory HTTP Basic
auth on all requests. The credentials are available in any relationships
that point at that service, in the \`username\` and \`password\`
properties. You can obtain the complete list of available service
environment variables in your app container by running \`\`upsun ssh
env\`\`. Note that the information about the relationship can change
when an app is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed.
So your apps should only rely on the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values. This functionality is
generally not required if Elasticsearch isn\'t exposed on its own public
HTTP route. However, certain applications may require it, or it allows
you to safely expose Elasticsearch directly to the web. To do so, add a
route to \`.upsun/config.yaml\` that has \`elasticsearch:elasticsearch\`
as its upstream (where \`elasticsearch\` is whatever you named the
service). For example: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://es.{default}/\":
type: upstream upstream: \"elasticsearch:elasticsearch\" services: \#
The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project.
elasticsearch: type: elasticsearch:8.5 configuration: authentication:
enabled: true \`\`\` \## Plugins Elasticsearch offers a number of
plugins. To enable them, list them under the \`configuration.plugins\`
key in your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file, like so: \`\`\`yaml {}
services: \# The name of the service container. Must be unique within a
project. elasticsearch: type: elasticsearch:8.5 configuration:
plugins: - analysis-icu \`\`\` If you\'re using a \[premium
version\](#supported-versions), use the \`elasticsearch-enterprise\`
type. In this example you\'d have the ICU analysis plugin and Python
script support plugin. If there is a publicly available plugin you need
that isn\'t listed here, \[contact
support\](/learn/overview/get-support.md). \### Available plugins This
is the complete list of official Elasticsearch plugins that can be
enabled: \| Plugin \| Description \| 2.4 \| 5.x \| 6.x \| 7.x \| 8.x \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`analysis-icu\` \| Support ICU Unicode text analysis \| \* \| \* \|
\* \| \* \| \* \| \| \`analysis-nori\` \| Integrates Lucene Nori
analysis module into Elasticsearch \| \| \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \|
\`analysis-kuromoji\` \| Japanese language support \| \* \| \* \| \* \|
\* \| \* \| \| \`analysis-smartcn\` \| Smart Chinese Analysis Plugins \|
\* \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \| \`analysis-stempel\` \| Stempel Polish
Analysis Plugin \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \|
\`analysis-phonetic\` \| Phonetic analysis \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \*
\| \| \`analysis-ukrainian\` \| Ukrainian language support \| \| \* \|
\* \| \* \| \* \| \| \`cloud-aws\` \| AWS Cloud plugin, allows storing
indices on AWS S3 \| \* \| \| \| \| \| \| \`delete-by-query\` \| Support
for deleting documents matching a given query \| \* \| \| \| \| \| \|
\`discovery-multicast\` \| Ability to form a cluster using TCP/IP
multicast messages \| \* \| \| \| \| \| \| \`ingest-attachment\` \|
Extract file attachments in common formats (such as PPT, XLS, and PDF)
\| \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \| \`ingest-user-agent\` \| Extracts
details from the user agent string a browser sends with its web requests
\| \| \* \| \* \| \| \| \| \`lang-javascript\` \| JavaScript language
plugin, allows the use of JavaScript in Elasticsearch scripts \| \| \*
\| \| \| \| \| \`lang-python\` \| Python language plugin, allows the use
of Python in Elasticsearch scripts \| \* \| \* \| \| \| \| \|
\`mapper-annotated-text\` \| Adds support for text fields with markup
used to inject annotation tokens into the index \| \| \| \* \| \* \| \*
\| \| \`mapper-attachments\` \| Mapper attachments plugin for indexing
common file types \| \* \| \* \| \| \| \| \| \`mapper-murmur3\` \|
Murmur3 mapper plugin for computing hashes at index-time \| \* \| \* \|
\* \| \* \| \* \| \| \`mapper-size\` \| Size mapper plugin, enables the
\`\_size\` meta field \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \|
\`repository-s3\` \| Support for using S3 as a repository for
Snapshot/Restore \| \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \* \| \| \`transport-nio\` \|
Support for NIO transport \| \| \| \| \* \| \* \| \### Plugin removal
Removing plugins previously added in your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file
doesn\'t automatically uninstall them from your Elasticsearch instances.
This is deliberate, as removing a plugin may result in data loss or
corruption of existing data that relied on that plugin. Removing a
plugin usually requires reindexing. To permanently remove a previously
enabled plugin, \[upgrade the service\](#upgrading) to create a new
instance of Elasticsearch and migrate to it. In most cases it isn\'t
necessary as an unused plugin has no appreciable impact on the server.
\## Upgrading The Elasticsearch data format sometimes changes between
versions in incompatible ways. Elasticsearch doesn\'t include a data
upgrade mechanism as it\'s expected that all indexes can be regenerated
from stable data if needed. To upgrade (or downgrade) Elasticsearch, use
a new service from scratch. There are two ways to do so. \###
Destructive In your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file, change the version
\*and\* name of your Elasticsearch service. Be sure to also update the
reference to the now changed service name in its corresponding
application\'s \`relationship\` block. When you push that to Upsun, the
old service is deleted and a new one with the new name is created with
no data. You can then have your application reindex data as appropriate.
This approach has the downsides of temporarily having an empty
Elasticsearch instance, which your application may or may not handle
gracefully, and needing to rebuild your index afterward. Depending on
the size of your data that could take a while. \### Transitional With a
transitional approach, you temporarily have two Elasticsearch services.
Add a second Elasticsearch service with the new version, a new name, and
give it a new relationship in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`. You can optionally
run in that configuration for a while to allow your application to
populate indexes in the new service as well. Once you\'re ready to
switch over, remove the old Elasticsearch service and relationship. You
may optionally have the new Elasticsearch service use the old
relationship name if that\'s easier for your app to handle. Your
application is now using the new Elasticsearch service. This approach
has the benefit of never being without a working Elasticsearch instance.
On the downside, it requires two running Elasticsearch servers
temporarily, each of which consumes resources and needs adequate disk
space. Depending on the size of your data, that may be a lot of disk
space. #Manage Python dependencies

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

You can manage Python packages in different ways. Python images come
with pip installed, but they\'re flexible enough so you can choose what
package manager you want. This article describes how to configure major
package management tools. This package management is different from
global dependencies (packages available as commands), which you can add
in your \[app configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md). See more
about \[managing global dependencies\](./\_index.md#package-management).
\## Pip \[pip\](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) is the primary package
installer for Python and comes installed on every Python container. You
can use it to install packages from the Python Package Index and other
locations. To manage packages with pip, commit a \`requirements.txt\`
file with all of the dependencies needed for your app. Then install the
packages in your \[\`build\` hook\](../../create-apps/hooks/\_index.md),
such as by running the following command: \`pip install -r
requirements.txt\`. The following sections present ideas to keep in mind
to ensure repeatable deployments on Upsun. \### pip version The version
of pip on Python containers gets updated regularly. But it isn\'t
guaranteed to be the latest version or the version that matches your
local environment. You might want to define a specific version of pip in
your deployments to further enforce repeatable builds. To do so, modify
your \[app configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md), as in the
following examples:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Latest version
-   Specific version

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" type: 'python:3.9' hooks: build: | # Fail the build if any errors occur set -eu # Download the latest version of pip python3.9 -m pip install --upgrade pip # Install dependencies pip install -r requirements.txt `
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" type: 'python:3.9' variables: env: PIP_VERSION: '22.3.1' hooks: build: | # Fail the build if any errors occur set -eu # Download a specific version of pip python3.9 -m pip install pip==$PIP_VERSION # Install dependencies pip install -r requirements.txt `
\### pip freeze You can write \`requirements.txt\` files in various
ways. You can specify anything from the latest major to a specific patch
version in a \[requirement
specifier\](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/reference/requirement-specifiers/).
Use \`pip freeze\` before committing your requirements to pin specific
package versions. This ensures repeatable builds on Upsun with the same
packages. \## Pipenv \[Pipenv\](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) is a
package manager for Python that creates and manages a virtual
environment for Python projects. Dependencies are tracked and defined
within a \`Pipfile\`. It also generates a \`Pipfile.lock\` file to
produce repeatable installs. You can specify the latest or a specific
version of Pipenv in your deployments to ensure repeatable builds.
Because Pipenv depends on pip, you might want to also specify the pip
version.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Latest version
-   Specific version

.upsun/config.yaml
`` applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" type: 'python:3.9' dependencies: python3: pipenv: '*' hooks: build: | # Fail the build if any errors occur set -eu # Download the latest version of pip python3.9 -m pip install --upgrade pip # Install dependencies # Include `--deploy` to fail the build if `Pipfile.lock` isn't up to date pipenv install --deploy  ``
.upsun/config.yaml
`` applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" type: 'python:3.9' variables: env: PIP_VERSION: '22.3.1' dependencies: python3: pipenv: '2022.12.19' hooks: build: | # Fail the build if any errors occur set -eu # Download a specific version of pip python3.9 -m pip install pip==$PIP_VERSION # Install dependencies # Include `--deploy` to fail the build if `Pipfile.lock` isn't up to date pipenv install --deploy  ``
\## Poetry \[Poetry\](https://python-poetry.org/docs/) is a tool for
dependency management and packaging in Python. It allows you to declare
the libraries your project depends on and manages them for you. Poetry
offers a lock file to ensure repeatable installs and can build your
project for distribution. It also creates and manages virtual
environments to keep project work isolated from the rest of your system.
To set up Poetry on Upsun, follow these steps: 1. Configure your virtual
environment by setting two variables in your \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md). -
\[\`POETRY_VIRTUALENVS_IN_PROJECT\`\](https://python-poetry.org/docs/configuration/#virtualenvsin-project):
Setting this to \`true\` places the virtual environment at the root of
the app container: \`/app/.venv\`. -
\[\`POETRY_VIRTUALENVS_CREATE\`\](https://python-poetry.org/docs/configuration/#virtualenvscreate):
Setting this to \`true\` ensures that the same virtual environment
created during the build hook is reused in subsequent steps. Set the
variables as follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name,
which must be unique within the project. myapp: type: \'python:3.9\'
variables: env: POETRY_VIRTUALENVS_IN_PROJECT: true
POETRY_VIRTUALENVS_CREATE: true \`\`\` 2. Install Poetry. You can
specify the latest or a specific version of Poetry in your deployments
to ensure repeatable builds.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Latest version
-   Specific version

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" type: 'python:3.9' dependencies: python3: poetry: '*' variables: env: POETRY_VIRTUALENVS_IN_PROJECT: true POETRY_VIRTUALENVS_CREATE: true hooks: build: | # Fail the build if any errors occur set -eu # Download the latest version of pip python3.9 -m pip install --upgrade pip # Install dependencies poetry install `
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" type: 'python:3.9' dependencies: python3: poetry: '>=1.8' variables: env: POETRY_VIRTUALENVS_IN_PROJECT: true POETRY_VIRTUALENVS_CREATE: true hooks: build: | # Fail the build if any errors occur set -eu # Download the latest version of pip python3.9 -m pip install --upgrade pip # Install dependencies poetry install `
3. Make Poetry available outside the build hook. Although step 2 updated
the \`PATH\` to make Poetry available during the build hook, it isn\'t
enough to make it available at subsequent stages. To use Poetry in a
start command, a deploy hook, or during SSH sessions, update the
\`PATH\` in a \[\`.environment\`
file\](../../development/variables/set-variables.md#set-variables-via-script).
\`\`\`text {} \# Updates PATH when Poetry is used, making it available
during deploys, start commands, and SSH. if \[ -n \"\$POETRY_VERSION\"
\]; then export PATH=\"/app/.local/bin:\$PATH\" fi \`\`\` #Deploy
Next.js on {{% vendor/name %}}

### Note

Before you start, check out the Upsun demo app and the main Getting
started guide. They provide all of the core concepts and common commands
you need to know before using the materials below.

\## Before you begin You need: - \[Git\](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
Git is the primary tool to manage everything your app needs to run. Push
commits to deploy changes and control configuration through YAML files.
These files describe your infrastructure, making it transparent and
version-controlled. - A Upsun account. If you don\'t already have one,
\[register for a trial account\](https://auth.upsun.com/register). You
can sign up with an email address or an existing GitHub, Bitbucket, or
Google account. If you choose one of these accounts, you can set a
password for your Upsun account later. - The \[Upsun
CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md). This lets you interact with your
project from the command line. You can also do most things through the
\[Web Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md). \## 1. Create a Next.js
app To create your Next.js app, follow these steps. 1. Follow the
Next.js \[installation
guide\](https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started/installation). To fast
track the process, run the following commands: \`\`\`bash {} npx
create-next-app@latest myapp \`\`\` 2. To initialize the local Git
repository and commit local files, run the following commands:
\`\`\`bash {} cd myapp git init git add . git commit -m \"Init Next.js
application.\" \`\`\`

### Note

You can view the running app locally by running `npm run dev`.

\## 2. Create a new project To create a project on Upsun, follow these
steps.

### Remember

After creating your Upsun project, copy your new **project ID** for
later use.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   Using the Console

To create a new project with the Upsun CLI, use the following command
and follow the prompts:

Terminal `upsun project:create`

### Note

When creating a new project using the Upsun CLI command
`project:create`, you are asked if you want to set the local remote to
your new project. Enter **Yes (y)**.

Your local source code is automatically linked to your newly created
Upsun project through the creation of a `.upsun/local/project.yaml`.
This file contains the corresponding `<projectId>` for the Upsun CLI to
use, and sets a Git remote to `upsun`.

1.  Create an organization or select an existing one.

2.  Click **Create from scratch**.

3.  Fill in details like the project name and region.

### Note

You can define resources for your project later on, after your first
push.

1.  To link your local source code to your new Upsun project, run the
    following command:

    Terminal `upsun project:set-remote <projectId>`

    This command adds a new remote called `upsun` to your local Git
    repository, which is equivalent to the following commands:

    Terminal `git remote origin upsun`

    It also creates a new `.upsun/local/project.yaml` file that contains
    the `<projectId>` for the `upsun` CLI to use.

### Tip

If you forget your `<projectId>`, run the following command and find
your project in the list:

Terminal `upsun project:list`

\## 3. Choose your Git workflow You can use Upsun projects as a classic
Git repository, where you are able to push your source code in different
ways, using either the Git CLI or the Upsun CLI. You can choose which
way ---or Git workflow--- you want to use for your project from the
following options: - Your project source code is \*\*hosted on a Upsun
Git repository\*\* - Your project source code is \*\*hosted on your own
GitHub repository\*\*

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Upsun Git repository
-   GitHub repository

For the rest of this guide, you will use the normal Git workflow
(`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push upsun`) to commit
your source code changes to Git history. You will also use the Upsun CLI
to deploy your Upsun environment with the latest code updates.

Upsun provides a Github integration that allows your Upsun project to be
fully integrated with your Github repository. This enables you, as a
developer, to use a normal Git workflow
(`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push`) to deploy your
environment---with no need to connect to the Upsun Console.

### Note

Make sure you complete the following steps before adding a Github
integration:

1.  Create a Git repository in your own organization following the
    relevant Github repository creation guide.

2.  Create a Github integration.

3.  Add a Git remote to your local project, from the root of your
    Next.js directory. To do so, run the following commands:

    Terminal
    `git remote add origin <urlOfYourOwnGitHubRepo> git add . && git commit -m "init next.js" git push origin`

\## 4. Configure your project To host your Next.js application on Upsun,
you need to have a few YAML configuration files at the root of your
project. These files manage your app\'s behavior. They are located in a
\`.upsun/\` folder at the root of your source code and structured in a
similar way to this: \`\`\`txt myapp ├── .upsun │ └── config.yaml ├──
\[.environment\] └── \`\`\` To generate these files, run the following
command at the root of your project: \`\`\` {} upsun project:init \`\`\`
Follow the prompts, and you should result in such a config file.
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type:
\"nodejs:22\" mounts: \"/.npm\": source: \"storage\" source_path:
\"npm\" hooks: build: \| set -eux npm i npm run build web: commands:
start: npm run start -p \$PORT locations: \"/\": passthru: true routes:
\"https://{default}/\": { type: upstream, upstream: \"myapp:http\" }
\"http://{default}/\": { type: redirect, to: \"https://{default}/\" }
\`\`\` As an example, above is the minimum configuration needed to
deploy a Next.js application on Upsun without any services. Depending on
your answers to the prompts, you may also have \`relationships\` and
\`services\` defined. To commit your new files, run the following
commands: \`\`\`bash {} git add . git commit -m \"Add Upsun config
files\" \`\`\` \## 5. Deploy And just like that, it's time to deploy!
Depending on the Git workflow you chose at the beginning of this
tutorial, there are two ways to deploy your source code changes.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using Upsun Git repository
-   Using third-party Git repository

You can push your code using the normal Git workflow
(`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push`). This pushes your
source code changes to your `upsun` remote repository. Alternatively,
you can use the following Upsun CLI command:

Terminal `upsun push`

When you choose to use a third-party Git hosting service, the Upsun Git
repository becomes a read-only mirror of the third-party repository. All
your changes take place in the third-party repository.

Add an integration to your existing third-party repository:

-   BitBucket
-   GitHub
-   GitLab

If you are using an integration, on each code updates, use the normal
Git workflow (`git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push`) to
push your code to your external repository. To do so, run the following
command:

Terminal `git push origin`

Your GitHub, GitLab, or Bibucket integration process then automatically
deploys changes to your environment. If you're pushing a new Git branch,
a new environment is created.

Upsun then reads your configuration files, and deploys your project
using \[default container
resources\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md). If you don\'t want to
use those default resources, define your own \[resource initialization
strategy\](/manage-resources/resource-init#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy),
or \[amend those default container
resources\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.md) after your project is
deployed. Et voilà, your Next.js application is live!

### Tip

Each environment has its own domain name. To open the URL of your new
environment, run the following command:

Terminal `upsun environment:url --primary`

\## 6. Make changes to your project Now that your project is deployed,
you can start making changes to it. For example, you might want to fix a
bug or add a new feature. In your project, the \`main\` branch always
represents the production environment. Other branches are for developing
new features, fixing bugs, or updating the infrastructure. To make
changes to your project, follow these steps: 1. Create a new environment
(a Git branch) to make changes without impacting production: \`\`\`bash
{} upsun branch feat-a \`\`\` This command creates a new local
\`feat-a\` Git branch based on the main Git branch, and activates a
related environment on Upsun. The new environment inherits the data
(service data and assets) of its parent environment (the production
environment here). 2. Make changes to your project. For example, edit
the \`views/index.jade\` file and make the following changes: \`\`\`diff
diff \--git a/views/index.jade b/views/index.jade index 3d63b9a..77aee43
100644 \-\-- a/views/index.jade +++ b/views/index.jade @@ -2,4 +2,4 @@
extends layout block content h1= title - p Welcome to #{title} + p
Welcome to #{title} on Upsun \`\` 3. Commit your changes: \`\`\`bash {}
git add views/index.jade git commit -m \"Update index page view.\"
\`\`\` 4. Deploy your changes to the \`feat-a\` environment: \`\`\`bash
{} upsun push \`\`\` 5. Iterate by changing the code, committing, and
deploying. When satisfied with your changes, merge them to the main
branch, and remove the feature branch: \`\`\`bash {} upsun merge Are you
sure you want to merge feat-a into its parent, main? \[Y/n\] y upsun
checkout main git pull upsun main upsun environment:delete feat-a git
fetch \--prune \`\`\` Note that deploying to production is fast because
the image built for the \`feat-a\` environment is reused. For a long
running branch, to keep the code up-to-date with the main branch, use
\`git merge main\` or \`git rebase main\`. You can also keep the data in
sync with the production environment by using \`upsun env:sync\`. \##
Further resources \### Documentation - \[JavaScript/Node.js
documentation\](/languages/nodejs/) - \[Managing
dependencies\](/languages/nodejs#dependencies) \### Community content -
\[Next.js
topics\](https://support.platform.sh/hc/en-us/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=nextjs) -
\[Node.js
topics\](https://support.platform.sh/hc/en-us/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=node) -
\[JavaScript
topics\](https://support.platform.sh/hc/en-us/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=js)
\### Blogs - \[A quick-start guide on hosting Next.js on
Upsun\](https://upsun.com/blog/setting-up-next-js-on-upsun/) #Gotenberg
Gotenberg is a stateless API for converting various document formats
into PDF files. For more information, see the \[Gotenberg
documentation\](https://gotenberg.dev/docs/getting-started/introduction).
\## Supported versions - 8 You can select the major version. But the
latest compatible minor version is applied automatically and can't be
overridden. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and
the like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest available
patches. \## Relationship reference For each service \[defined via a
relationship\](#usage-example) to your application, Upsun automatically
generates corresponding environment variables within your application
container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format. Here is example information
available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`GOTENBERG_INSTANCE_IPS=["249.45.240.83"] GOTENBERG_SCHEME=http GOTENBERG_HOSTNAME=rssjaxyeoorjje6axcq35xu5gq.gotenberg.service._.eu-5.platformsh.site >}} GOTENBERG_SERVICE=gotenberg GOTENBERG_CLUSTER=p2f2xrzyq7a6k-main-bvxea6i GOTENBERG_IP=169.254.137.3 GOTENBERG_TYPE=gotenberg:8 GOTENBERG_HOST=gotenberg.internal GOTENBERG_PORT=3000 GOTENBERG_REL=http`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "host": "gotenberg.internal", "hostname": "rssjaxyeoorjje6axcq35xu5gq.gotenberg.service._.eu-5.platformsh.site", "cluster": "p2f2xrzyq7a6k-main-bvxea6i", "service": "gotenberg", "rel": "http", "scheme": "http", "port": "3000", "type": "gotenberg:8", "instance_ips": [ "249.45.240.83" ], "ip": "169.254.137.3", "url": "http://gotenberg.internal:3000" }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_GOTENBERG_HOST=="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.gotenberg[0].host')"`
\## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`gotenberg\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the
service container. Must be unique within a project. : type: gotenberg:
\`\`\` Note that changing the name of the service replaces it with a
brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back up your data
before changing the service. \### 2. Define the relationship To define
the relationship, use the \`\`http\`\` endpoint:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: http`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

With the above definition, Upsun uses the \`http\` endpoint, providing a
\[relationship\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the \_name\_ of that service. The \`http\` endpoint uses port \`3000\`
by default. \### Example configuration

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: gotenberg: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. gotenberg: type: gotenberg:8`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: gotenberg: service: gotenberg endpoint: http services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. gotenberg: type: gotenberg:8`
\## Generate a PDF using Gotenberg As an example, to generate a PDF file
of the Upsun website, run the following cURL command: \`\`\`bash {} curl
\\ \--request POST
http://yduimhaby523ase4lju3qhimre.gotenberg8.service.\_.eu-3.platformsh.site/forms/chromium/convert/url
\\ \--form url=https://upsun.com \\ \--form landscape=true \\ \--form
marginTop=1 \\ \--form marginBottom=1 \\ -o my.pdf \`\`\` #Headless
Chrome Headless Chrome is a headless browser that can be configured on
projects like any other service on Upsun. You can interact with the
\`chrome-headless\` service container using Puppeteer, a Node.js library
that provides an API to control Chrome over the DevTools Protocol.
Puppeteer can be used to generate PDFs and screenshots of web pages,
automate form submission, and test your project\'s UI. You can find out
more information about using Puppeteer on
\[GitHub\](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer) or in their
\[documentation\](https://pptr.dev/). \## Supported versions You can
select the major version. But the latest compatible minor version is
applied automatically and can't be overridden. Patch versions are
applied periodically for bug fixes and the like. When you deploy your
app, you always get the latest available patches.

-   120
-   113
-   95
-   91
-   86
-   84
-   83
-   81
-   80
-   73

\## Relationship reference For each service \[defined via a
relationship\](#usage-example) to your application, Upsun automatically
generates corresponding environment variables within your application
container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format. Here is example information
available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`CHROME_HEADLESS_SERVICE=chrome-headless CHROME_HEADLESS_IP=123.456.78.90 CHROME_HEADLESS_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.chrome-headless.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site CHROME_HEADLESS_CLUSTER=azertyuiop-main-7rqtwti CHROME_HEADLESS_HOST=chrome-headless.internal CHROME_HEADLESS_REL=http CHROME_HEADLESS_SCHEME=http CHROME_HEADLESS_TYPE=chrome-headless:120 CHROME_HEADLESS_PORT=9222`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "service": "chrome-headless", "ip": "123.456.78.90", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.chrome-headless.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "cluster": "azertyuiop-main-7rqtwti", "host": "chrome-headless.internal", "rel": "http", "scheme": "http", "type": "chrome-headless:120", "port": 9222 }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_HEADLESSCHROME_HOST=="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.chrome-headless[0].host')"`
\## Requirements Puppeteer requires at least Node.js version 6.4.0,
while using the async and await examples below requires Node 7.6.0 or
greater. If your app container uses a language other than Node.js,
upgrade the Node.js version before using Puppeteer. See how to \[manage
your Node.js version\](../languages/nodejs/node-version.md). \## Usage
example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service, use the
\`chrome-headless\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the
service container. Must be unique within a project. : type:
chrome-headless: \`\`\` Note that changing the name of the service
replaces it with a brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back
up your data before changing the service. \### 2. Define the
relationship To define the relationship, use the following
configuration:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the *name* of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<SERVICE_NAME>` and its
corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: http`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

\### Example configuration

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: chrome-headless: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. chrome-headless: type: chrome-headless:120`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: chrome-headless: service: chrome-headless endpoint: http services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. chrome-headless: type: chrome-headless:120`
\### Use in app After configuration, include
\[Puppeteer\](https://www.npmjs.com/package/puppeteer) as a dependency:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   npm
-   pnpm
-   Yarn
-   

`npm install puppeteer` `pnpm add puppeteer` `yarn add puppeteer`
Configuration for a project looks similar to the following:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" type: "nodejs:22" [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: chrome-headless: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. chrome-headless: type: chrome-headless:120`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" type: "nodejs:22" [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: chrome-headless: service: chrome-headless endpoint: http services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. chrome-headless: type: chrome-headless:120`
This configuration defines a single application (\`myapp\`), whose
source code exists in the \`/myapp\` directory. \`myapp\` has access to
the \`chrome-headless\` service, via a relationship whose name is
\[identical to the service name\](#2-define-the-relationship) (as per
\[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships). From this, \`myapp\` can retrieve
access credentials to the service through the \[relationship environment
variable\](/add-services/elasticsearch.md#relationship-reference).
\`\`\`bash {} \# Set environment variables for individual credentials,
\# For more information, please visit
https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables.
export CHROME_IP=\${CHROME_HEADLESS_IP} export
CHROME_PORT=\${CHROME_HEADLESS_PORT} \# Combine into a single base URL
to be used within app. export
CHROME_BASEURL=\"http://\${CHROME_IP}:\${CHROME_PORT}\" \`\`\` The above
file --- \`.environment\` in the \`myapp\` directory --- is
automatically sourced by Upsun into the runtime environment, so that the
variable \`CHROME_BASEURL\` can be used within the application to
connect to the service. Note that \`CHROME_BASEURL\` and all Upsun
\[service environment
variables\](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
like \`CHROME_HEADLESS_HOST\`, are environment-dependent. Unlike the
build produced for a given commit, they can\'t be reused across
environments and only allow your app to connect to a single service
instance on a single environment. A file very similar to this is
generated automatically for your when using the \`upsun ify\` command to
\[migrate a codebase to Upsun\](/get-started). Puppeteer allows your
application to \[create
screenshots\](https://pptr.dev/#?product=Puppeteer&version=v13.0.1&show=api-pagescreenshotoptions),
\[emulate a mobile
device\](https://pptr.dev/#?product=Puppeteer&version=v13.0.1&show=api-pageemulateoptions),
\[generate
PDFs\](https://pptr.dev/#?product=Puppeteer&version=v13.0.1&show=api-pagepdfoptions),
and much more. #Manage continous observability with Blackfire
\[Blackfire.io\](/increase-observability/application-metrics/blackfire.md)
is the recommended solution for monitoring and profiling web sites and
apps. Blackfire works seamlessly with any app built with Laravel.
Blackfire PHP SDK provides the following \[integrations with
Laravel\](https://docs.blackfire.io/php/integrations/laravel/index): -
\[Laravel
Artisan\](https://docs.blackfire.io/php/integrations/laravel/artisan) -
\[Laravel Horizon and queue
services\](https://docs.blackfire.io/php/integrations/laravel/horizon) -
\[Laravel
Tests\](https://docs.blackfire.io/php/integrations/laravel/tests) -
\[Laravel
Octane\](https://docs.blackfire.io/php/integrations/laravel/octane)
Please refer to the \[Blackfire
documentation\](https://docs.blackfire.io/testing-cookbooks/tests#the-code-blackfire-yaml-code-file)
to set up a \`.blackfire.yml\` configuration to enable custom
\[performance tests\](https://docs.blackfire.io/testing-cookbooks/index)
and automated
\[builds\](https://docs.blackfire.io/builds-cookbooks/index).

Back

Debug with Telescope

#Manage continous observability with Blackfire
\[Blackfire.io\](/increase-observability/application-metrics/blackfire.md)
is the recommended solution for monitoring and profiling web sites and
apps. Blackfire works seamlessly with any app built with Symfony.
Blackfire PHP SDK provides the following \[integrations with
Symfony\](https://blackfire.io/docs/php/integrations/symfony/index): -
\[Symfony
HTTPClient\](https://blackfire.io/docs/php/integrations/symfony/http-client) -
\[Symfony
Messenger\](https://blackfire.io/docs/php/integrations/symfony/messenger) -
\[Symfony CLI Commands
Monitoring\](https://blackfire.io/docs/php/integrations/symfony/cli-commands-monitoring) -
\[Symfony Functional Tests
Production\](https://blackfire.io/docs/php/integrations/symfony/functional-tests)
A \`.blackfire.yaml\` file is provided within the \[Symfony
Templates\](https://github.com/symfonycorp/platformsh-symfony-template/blob/6.2/.blackfire.yaml)
to help you bootstrap the writing of custom \[performance
tests\](https://blackfire.io/docs/testing-cookbooks/index) and automated
\[builds\](https://blackfire.io/docs/builds-cookbooks/index).

Back

Handle local development

#Web servers

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

The Python ecosystem offers a number of web servers that can be used to
deploy to Upsun. The following examples deploy a Django project named
\`myapp\`. They assume a \`myapp/wsgi.py\` or \`myapp/asgi.py\` file
with a callable \`application\`. Adjust the examples to fit your
framework and app. \## Gunicorn \[Gunicorn\](https://docs.gunicorn.org/)
is a Python WSGI HTTP Server for Unix that operates on a pre-fork worker
model. The Gunicorn server is broadly compatible with various web
frameworks, light on server resource usage, and fast. To deploy with
Gunicorn on Upsun , use one of the following examples to update your
\[app configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md). The examples vary
based on both your package manager (Pip, Pipenv, or Poetry) and whether
your app listens on a TCP (default) or Unix (for running behind a proxy
server) socket. For more information on upstream sockets and protocols,
see the \[application
reference\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#upstream).
The snippets below assume that Gunicorn has been added as a dependency
to your \`requirements.txt\`, \`Pipfile.lock\`, or \`poetry.lock\`.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Pip (TCP)
-   Pip (Unix)
-   Pipenv (TCP)
-   Pipenv (Unix)
-   Poetry (TCP)
-   Poetry (Unix)

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "gunicorn -w 4 -b localhost:$PORT app.wsgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "gunicorn -w 4 -b unix:$SOCKET app.wsgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "pipenv run gunicorn -w 4 -b localhost:$PORT app.wsgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "pipenv run gunicorn -w 4 -b unix:$SOCKET app.wsgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "poetry run gunicorn -w 4 -b localhost:$PORT app.wsgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "poetry run gunicorn -w 4 -b unix:$SOCKET app.wsgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
\### Gunicorn workers These examples define four worker processes with
\`-w 4\`. For more details on what you can configure, see the \[Gunicorn
documentation\](https://docs.gunicorn.org/en/stable/faq.html#worker-processes).
Workers can also be defined with a custom \[worker
class\](https://docs.gunicorn.org/en/latest/settings.html#worker-class),
such as \[Uvicorn\](https://www.uvicorn.org/#running-with-gunicorn),
\[gevent\](https://www.gevent.org/), or
\[Tornado\](https://www.tornadoweb.org/). For example, to add a Uvicorn
worker class to the pip example for Unix, adjust the start command to
the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which
must be unique within the project. myapp: type: \'python:3.9\' web:
upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: \"gunicorn -w 4 -k
uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker -b unix:\$SOCKET app.wsgi:application\"
\`\`\` \## Daphne \[Daphne\](https://github.com/django/daphne) is a
HTTP, HTTP2 ,and WebSocket protocol server for ASGI and ASGI-HTTP,
developed to power Django Channels. To deploy with Daphne on Upsun , use
one of the following examples to update your \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md). The examples vary based
on both your package manager (Pip, Pipenv, or Poetry) and whether your
app listens on a TCP (default) or Unix (for running behind a proxy
server) socket. For more information on upstream sockets and protocols,
see the \[application
reference\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#upstream).
The snippets below assume that Daphne has been added as a dependency to
your \`requirements.txt\`, \`Pipfile.lock\`, or \`poetry.lock\`.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Pip (TCP)
-   Pip (Unix)
-   Pipenv (TCP)
-   Pipenv (Unix)
-   Poetry (TCP)
-   Poetry (Unix)

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "daphne -p $PORT app.asgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "daphne -u $SOCKET app.asgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "pipenv run daphne -p $PORT app.asgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "pipenv run daphne -u $SOCKET app.asgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "poetry run daphne -p $PORT app.asgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "poetry run -u $SOCKET app.asgi:application" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
\## Uvicorn \[Uvicorn\](https://www.uvicorn.org/) is an ASGI web server
implementation for Python. To deploy with Uvicorn on Upsun , use one of
the following examples to update your \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md). The examples vary based
on both your package manager (Pip, Pipenv, or Poetry) and whether your
app listens on a TCP (default) or Unix (for running behind a proxy
server) socket. For more information on upstream sockets and protocols,
see the \[application
reference\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#upstream).
The snippets below assume that Uvicorn has been added as a dependency to
your \`requirements.txt\`, \`Pipfile.lock\`, or \`poetry.lock\`.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Pip (TCP)
-   Pip (Unix)
-   Pipenv (TCP)
-   Pipenv (Unix)
-   Poetry (TCP)
-   Poetry (Unix)

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "uvicorn app.asgi:application --port $PORT --workers 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "uvicorn app.asgi:application --uds $SOCKET --workers 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "pipenv run uvicorn app.asgi:application --port $PORT --workers 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "pipenv run uvicorn app.asgi:application --uds $SOCKET --workers 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "poetry run uvicorn app.asgi:application --port $PORT --workers 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "poetry run uvicorn app.asgi:application --uds $SOCKET --workers 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
\### Uvicorn workers These examples define four worker processes with
\`-w 4\`. For more recommendations on this and other settings, see the
\[Uvicorn documentation\](https://www.uvicorn.org/settings/#timeouts).
Instead of the \`-w\` flag, you can also use the \`WEB_CONCURRENCY\`
variable. See how to \[set
variables\](../../development/variables/set-variables.md). \## Hypercorn
\[Hypercorn\](https://hypercorn.readthedocs.io/) is an ASGI and WSGI web
server inspired by Gunicorn. To deploy with Hypercorn on Upsun , use one
of the following examples to update your \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md). The examples vary based
on both your package manager (Pip, Pipenv, or Poetry) and whether your
app listens on a TCP (default) or Unix (for running behind a proxy
server) socket. For more information on upstream sockets and protocols,
see the \[application
reference\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#upstream).
The snippets below assume that Hypercorn has been added as a dependency
to your \`requirements.txt\`, \`Pipfile.lock\`, or \`poetry.lock\`.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Pip (TCP)
-   Pip (Unix)
-   Pipenv (TCP)
-   Pipenv (Unix)
-   Poetry (TCP)
-   Poetry (Unix)

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "hypercorn app.asgi:application -b localhost:$PORT -w 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "hypercorn app.asgi:application -b unix:$SOCKET -w 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "pipenv run hypercorn app.asgi:application -b localhost:$PORT -w 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "pipenv run hypercorn app.asgi:application -b unix:$SOCKET -w 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: commands: start: "poetry run hypercorn app.asgi:application -b localhost:$PORT -w 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'python:3.9' web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: start: "poetry run hypercorn app.asgi:application -b unix:$SOCKET -w 4" locations: "/": passthru: true "/static": root: "static" expires: 1h allow: true`
\### Hypercorn workers These examples define four worker processes with
\`-w 4\`. For more details on what you can configure, see the
\[Hypercorn
documentation\](https://hypercorn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/how_to_guides/configuring.html).
Workers can also be defined with a custom \[worker
class\](https://hypercorn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/how_to_guides/configuring.html#configuration-options),
such as Asyncio, Uvloop, or Trio. For example, to add a Asyncio worker
class to the pip example for Unix, adjust the start command to the
following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be
unique within the project. myapp: type: \'python:3.9\' web: upstream:
socket_family: unix commands: start: \"hypercorn app.asgi:application -b
unix:\$SOCKET -w 4 -k asyncio\" \`\`\` #Debug with Laravel Telescope
Laravel Telescope complements your local Laravel development
environment. With Telescope, get insight into the requests coming into
your app, exceptions, log entries, database queries, queued jobs, mail,
notifications, cache operations, scheduled tasks, variable dumps, and
more. To set up Laravel Telescope on your \*\*non-production\*\*
environments, follow these steps. \## 1. Create the APP_DEBUG variable
To add the \`APP_DEBUG\` & \`TELESCOPE_ENABLED\` variables on your
project, run the following commands: \`\`\`bash {} upsun variable:create
\--level environment \--name env:APP_DEBUG \--value false upsun
variable:create \--level environment \--name env:TELESCOPE_ENABLED
\--value false \`\`\` Note that the default values for your main
environment are set to \`false\`. To override them on other
non-production environments, run the following commands: \`\`\`bash {}
upsun variable:update -e ENVIRONMENT \--value true env:APP_DEBUG upsun
variable:update -e ENVIRONMENT \--value true env:TELESCOPE_ENABLED
\`\`\` \## 2. Add Telescope to your project 1. Run the following
Composer command: \`\`\`bash {} composer require laravel/telescope &&
php artisan telescope:install \`\`\` 2. Add the \`install\` command to
your \`build\` hook in your app configuration, so it\'s run on every
deploy. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \[\...\] hooks: build: \| set
-eux composer \--no-ansi \--no-interaction install \--no-progress
\--prefer-dist \--optimize-autoloader \--no-dev php artisan
telescope:install \`\`\` For more options and information on how to
manage authentication for the dashboard, see the \[Laravel Telecope
documentation\](https://laravel.com/docs/master/telescope#installation).
\## 3. Deploy the new release To enable Telescope, push your changes to
Upsun: \`\`\`bash {} git add . git commit -m \"Enable Laravel Horizon\"
upsun push \`\`\` You can now access the \`/telescope\` endpoint of your
app. \![Laravel Horizon
Dashboard\](/images/guides/laravel/telescope-dashboard.png \"0.5\")

### Note

Telescope uses a gate defined in `TelescopeServiceProvider.php` to
authorize access to the dashboard. Check that the logic here matches
your needs.

Back

FAQ

#Deploy Django on {{% vendor/name %}}

### Note

Before you start, check out the Upsun demo app and the main Getting
started guide. They provide all of the core concepts and common commands
you need to know before using the materials below.

For Django to successfully deploy and operate, \*\*after completing the
\[Getting started guide\](/get-started/here/\_index.md)\*\*, you still
need to make a few changes to your Upsun configuration. \## Before you
begin You need: - \[Git\](https://git-scm.com/downloads). Git is the
primary tool to manage everything your app needs to run. Push commits to
deploy changes and control configuration through YAML files. These files
describe your infrastructure, making it transparent and
version-controlled. - A Upsun account. If you don\'t already have one,
\[register for a trial account\](https://auth.upsun.com/register). You
can sign up with an email address or an existing GitHub, Bitbucket, or
Google account. If you choose one of these accounts, you can set a
password for your Upsun account later. - The \[Upsun
CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md). This lets you interact with your
project from the command line. You can also do most things through the
\[Web Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md). \## 1. Leverage
environment variables Your \`settings.py\` file may allow for
environment variables to be set for common pieces of configuration. In
this case, add and commit a \`.environment\` file that includes those
details. \`\`\`bash {} export
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=config.settings.production export
DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=\"\$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\" export DJANGO_ALLOWED\_
\`\`\`

### Warning

Not all Django apps allow for configuration in this way. See the
following sections to see how other common settings should be set on
Upsun.

\## 2. Configure \`ALLOWED_HOSTS\` Your \`settings.py\` file may not
allow you to use an environment variable like \`DJANGO_ALLOWED_HOSTS\`.
If so, to configure allowed hosts, update your \`settings.py\` file to
include \`platformsh.site\`: \`\`\`py {} ALLOWED_HOSTS = \[
\'localhost\', \'127.0.0.1\', \'.platformsh.site\', \] \`\`\` Appending
\`.platformsh.site\` to \`ALLOWED_HOSTS\` allows for all URLs generated
for Upsun preview environments. \## 3. Upsun-specific settings Near the
bottom of your \`settings.py\` file, define a block that: - Detects when
Django is running on an Upsun environment - Override previous settings
If your configuration is split into a \`production.py\` file for
production settings, place it there instead. \`\`\`py {} \#
Production/Upsun settings. if (os.getenv(\'PLATFORM_APPLICATION_NAME\')
is not None): DEBUG = False \# Static dir. if
(os.getenv(\'PLATFORM_APP_DIR\') is not None): STATIC_ROOT =
os.path.join(os.getenv(\'PLATFORM_APP_DIR\'), \'static\') \# Secret Key.
if (os.getenv(\'PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\') is not None): SECRET_KEY =
os.getenv(\'PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\') \# Production database
configuration. if (os.getenv(\'PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT\') is not None):
DATABASES = { \'default\': { \'ENGINE\':
\'django.db.backends.postgresql\', \'NAME\':
os.getenv(\'DATABASE_PATH\'), \'USER\':
os.getenv(\'DATABASE_USERNAME\'), \'PASSWORD\':
os.getenv(\'DATABASE_PASSWORD\'), \'HOST\':
os.getenv(\'DATABASE_HOST\'), \'PORT\': os.getenv(\'DATABASE_PORT\'), },
\'sqlite\': { \'ENGINE\': \'django.db.backends.sqlite3\', \'NAME\':
os.path.join(BASE_DIR, \'db.sqlite3\'), } } \`\`\` This update includes
a few important changes: 1. \*\*Overwrites.\*\* If the
\`PLATFORM_APPLICATION_NAME\` Upsun built-in variable is found (that is,
Django is running on an Upsun environment), override your previous
settings. No matter what environment type we run on Upsun, this file
uses production settings for Upsun (i.e. \`DEBUG = False\`). 1.
\*\*Static.\*\* \`STATIC_ROOT\`, and the \`static\` files path is
updated relative to the application root on Upsun. 1. \*\*Secret
key.\*\* All Upsun projects come with a unique hash environment variable
\`PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\` that can be used to update your
\`SECRET_KEY\`. 1. \*\*Databases.\*\* When Django is running on an Upsun
enviroment \_at runtime\_, it has access to service containers like
databases and caches. Every service container you configure in
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` has a unique relationship name
(\`applications::relationships:\`). Upsun automatically uses this
relationship name to expose connection credentials through environment
variables (for example, via \`RELATIONSHIPNAME_HOST\`). Update
\`settings.py\` according to the example above (which configures a
PostgreSQL service), where the relationship \`database\` results in
environment variables that are leveraged to update the \`DATABASES\`
setting for your application. You can use the exact same logic to
configure \`CACHES\` from the \`rediscache\` relationship using the
exposed \`REDISCACHE\_\` environment variables to setup
\`django_redis.cache.RedisCache\`. \## 4. Start the app In your app
configuration, locate the \`web:commands:start\` section and update it
as follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \... web: commands:
start: \"gunicorn -b unix:\$SOCKET config.wsgi\" upstream:
socket_family: unix \`\`\` Note that if your Django instance requires a
different web server, Upsun also supports \[several other
options\](/languages/python/server.md). \## 5. Configure static assets
To access Django\'s static assets, you need to add a second location to
the \`web:locations\` section of your app configuration. Locate the
\`web:locations\` section and add a location for \`/static\`: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: myapp: \... web: locations: \"/\": \"passthru\": true
\"/static\": \"allow\": true \"expires\": \"1h\" \"root\": \"static\"
\`\`\` \## 6. Install dependencies and builds Instruct Upsun to install
your Python and Node (if needed) dependencies. Locate the
\`hooks:build\` section and update it as follows: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: \... build: \| set -eux pip install \--upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt npm install npm run build \`\`\` Remove
the \`npm\` steps if not required for your app\'s assets. Note that if
your project uses a different package manager, Upsun also supports
\[several other options\](/languages/python/dependencies.md). \## 7.
Configure the deploy phase In your app configuration, locate the
\`deploy\` section and update it as follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: \... deploy: \| set -eux python manage.py collectstatic
\--noinput python manage.py migrate \`\`\` \## 8. Allow write access
where needed Since Django can require a writable locations at runtime,
you need to set up writable mounts. To do so, locate the \`mounts\`
section (currently commented), and update it as follows: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: \... mounts: \"/staticfiles\": source: \"local\"
source_path: \"static_assets\" \`\`\` You can now commit all of the
above changes and push to Upsun. \`\`\`bash {} git add . git commit -m
\"Add changes to complete my Upsun configuration\" git push \`\`\` \##
Further resources \### Documentation - \[Python
documentation\](/languages/python/) - \[Managing
dependencies\](/languages/python/dependencies) - \[Configuring web
servers\](/languages/python/server) \### Community content - \[Django
topics\](https://support.platform.sh/hc/en-us/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=django) -
\[Python
topics\](https://support.platform.sh/hc/en-us/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=python)
\### Blogs - \[\_Up(sun) and running with
Django\_\](https://upsun.com/blog/setting-up-django-on-upsun/) #InfluxDB
(Database service) InfluxDB is a time series database optimized for
high-write-volume use cases such as logs, sensor data, and real-time
analytics. It exposes an HTTP API for client interaction. See the
\[InfluxDB documentation\](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb) for
more information. \## Supported versions You can select the major and
minor version. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and
the like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest available
patches.

-   2.7
-   2.3

\## Deprecated versions The following versions are still available in
your projects, but they\'re at their end of life and are no longer
receiving security updates from upstream.

-   2.2
-   1.8
-   1.7
-   1.3
-   1.2

To ensure your project remains stable in the future, switch to a
\[supported version\](#supported-versions). See more information on
\[how to upgrade to version 2.3 or
later\](#upgrade-to-version-23-or-later). \## Relationship reference For
each service \[defined via a relationship\](#usage-example) to your
application, Upsun automatically generates corresponding environment
variables within your application container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format.
Here is example information available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`INFLUXDB_HOST=influxdb.internal INFLUXDB_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.influxdb.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site INFLUXDB_CLUSTER=azertyuiopqsdf-main-bvxea6i INFLUXDB_SERVICE=influxdb INFLUXDB_TYPE=influxdb:2.7 INFLUXDB_REL=influxdb INFLUXDB_SCHEME=http INFLUXDB_USERNAME=admin INFLUXDB_PASSWORD=ChangeMe INFLUXDB_PORT=8086 INFLUXDB_PATH= INFLUXDB_QUERY={'org': 'main', 'bucket': 'main', 'api_token': 'azertyuiopqsdfghjklm1234567890'} INFLUXDB_FRAGMENT= INFLUXDB_PUBLIC=false INFLUXDB_HOST_MAPPED=false INFLUXDB_IP=123.456.78.90`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "host": "influxdb.internal", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.influxdb.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "cluster": "azertyuiopqsdf-main-bvxea6i", "service": "influxdb", "type": "influxdb:2.7", "rel": "influxdb", "scheme": "http", "username": "admin", "password": "ChangeMe", "port": 8086, "path": null, "query": { "org": "main", "bucket": "main", "api_token": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm1234567890" }, "fragment": null, "public": false, "host_mapped": false, "ip": "123.456.78.90" }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_INFLUXDB_HOST="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.influxdb[0].host')"`
\## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`influxdb\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the
service container. Must be unique within a project. : type: influxdb:
\`\`\` Note that changing the name of the service replaces it with a
brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back up your data
before changing the service. \### 2. Define the relationship To define
the relationship, use the following configuration:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the *name* of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<SERVICE_NAME>` and its
corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: influxdb`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

\### Example configuration

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: influxdb: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. influxdb: type: influxdb:2.7`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: influxdb: service: influxdb endpoint: influxdb services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. influxdb: type: influxdb:2.7`
\### Use in app To use the configured service in your app, add a
configuration file similar to the following to your project.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: influxdb: service: influxdb: type: influxdb:2.7`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: influxdb: service: influxdb endpoint: influxdb service: influxdb: type: influxdb:2.7`
This configuration defines a single application (\`myapp\`), whose
source code exists in the \`/myapp\` directory. \`myapp\` has access to
the \`influxdb\` service, via a relationship whose name is \[identical
to the service name\](#2-define-the-relationship) (as per \[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships). From this, \`\`myapp\`\` can retrieve
access credentials to the service through the \[relationship environment
variables\](#relationship-reference). \`\`\`bash {} \# Set environment
variables for common InfluxDB credentials. \# For more information,
please visit
https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables.
export INFLUX_USER=\${INFLUXDB_USERNAME} export
INFLUX_HOST=\${INFLUXDB_HOST} export INFLUX_ORG=\$(echo \$INFLUXDB_QUERY
\| jq -r \".org\") export INFLUX_TOKEN=\$(echo \$INFLUXDB_QUERY \| jq -r
\".api_token\") export INFLUX_BUCKET=\$(echo \$INFLUXDB_QUERY \| jq -r
\".bucket\") \`\`\` The above file --- \`\`.environment\`\` in the
\`\`myapp\`\` directory --- is automatically sourced by Upsun into the
runtime environment, so that the variable \`\`INFLUX_HOST\`\` can be
used within the application to connect to the service. Note that
\`\`INFLUX_HOST\`\`, and all \[Upsun-service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
like \`\`INFLUXDBDATABASE_HOST\`\`, are environment-dependent. Unlike
the build produced for a given commit, they can't be reused across
environments and only allow your app to connect to a single service
instance on a single environment. A file very similar to this is
generated automatically for your when using the \`\`upsun ify\`\`
command to \[migrate a codebase to Upsun\](/get-started/\_index.md). \##
Export data To export your data from InfluxDB, follow these steps: 1.
Install and set up the \[\`influx\`
CLI\](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud/tools/influx-cli/). 2.
Connect to your InfluxDB service with the \[Upsun
CLI\](../administration/cli/\_index.md): \`\`\`bash upsun tunnel:single
\`\`\` This opens an SSH tunnel to your InfluxDB service on your current
environment and produces output like the following: \`\`\`bash SSH
tunnel opened to RELATIONSHIP_NAME at: http://127.0.0.1:30000 \`\`\` 3.
Get the username, password and token from the
\[relationship\](#relationship-reference) by running the following
command: \`\`\`bash upsun relationships -P RELATIONSHIP_NAME \`\`\` 4.
Adapt and run \[InfluxDB\'s CLI export
command\](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.3/reference/cli/influx/backup/).
\`\`\` bash influx backup \--host URL_FROM_STEP_2 \--token
API_TOKEN_FROM_STEP_3 \`\`\` \## Upgrade to version 2.3 or later \###
From a previous 2.x version From version 2.3 onward, the structure of
relationships changes. If you\'re using a prior 2.x version, your app
might currently rely on pulling the \`bucket\`, \`org\`, \`api_token\`,
or \`user\` values available in the \[\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`
environment variable\](#relationship-reference). If so, to ensure your
upgrade is successful, make the following changes to your connection
logic: - Rename the \`user\` key to \`username\`. - Move the \`org\`,
\`bucket\` and \`api_token\` keys so they\'re contained in a dictionary
under the \`query\` key. If you\'re relying on any other attributes
connecting to InfluxDB, they remain accessible as environment variable
from the \[service environment variable\](#relationship-reference),
aside from those addressed above: \### From a 1.x version From version
2.3 onward, InfluxDB includes an upgrade utility that can convert
databases from previous versions to version 2.3 or later. To upgrade
from a 1.x version to 2.3 or later, change the service version in your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file and push your project. Any existing data you
had in your 1.x system is automatically upgraded for you into the 2.3+
system.

### Note

During an upgrade from a 1.x version to a 2.3 version or later, a new
admin password and a new admin API token are automatically generated.
Previous credentials can't be retained.

You can retrieve your new credentials through the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

#Local development When you develop a Symfony project, a significant
amount of work takes place locally rather than on an active Upsun
environment. You want to ensure that the process of local development is
as close as possible to a deployed environment. You can achieve this
through various approaches. For example, you can use Symfony Server with
tethered data. To do so, when testing changes locally, you can connect
your locally running Symfony Server to service containers on an active
Upsun environment. This methodology has several advantages: - It avoids
installing anything on your local machine but PHP; - It ensures that you
are using the same versions of all services on your local machine and in
production.

### Warning

Never use this method on the **main** environment as changes made on
your local machine will impact production data.

\## Before you begin You need: - A local copy of the repository for a
project running on Upsun. You can clone an integrated source repository
and set the remote branch. To do so, run
`symfony cloud:project:set-remote PROJECT_ID `. - The \[Symfony
CLI\](https://symfony.com/download) \## 1. Start your Symfony Server To
start your \[Symfony
Server\](https://symfony.com/doc/current/setup/symfony_server.html)
locally and display your Symfony app, run the following command:
\`\`\`bash symfony server:start -d symfony open:local \`\`\` This starts
the Symfony Server and opens the app in your local browser. \## 2.
Create the tethered connection 1. Create a new environment off of
production: \`\`\`bash symfony branch new-feature main \`\`\` 2. Open an
SSH tunnel to the new environment\'s services: \`\`\`bash symfony
tunnel:open \`\`\`\` This command returns the addresses for SSH tunnels
to all of your services: \`\`\`bash symfony tunnel:open SSH tunnel
opened to rediscache at: redis://127.0.0.1:30000 SSH tunnel opened to
database at: pgsql://main:main@127.0.0.1:30001/main Logs are written to:
/Users/acmeUser/.platformsh/tunnels.log List tunnels with: symfony
tunnels View tunnel details with: symfony tunnel:info Close tunnels
with: symfony tunnel:close Save encoded tunnel details to the
PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS variable using: export
PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS=\"\$(symfony tunnel:info \--encode)\" \`\`\` 3.
To expose Upsun services to your Symfony app, run the following command:
\`\`\`bash symfony var:expose-from-tunnel \`\`\` This automatically
configures your local Symfony app to use all your remote Upsun services
(remote database, remote Redis component, etc.). To check that you\'re
now using remote data and components from Upsun, reload your local app
within your browser. 4. When you\'ve finished your work, close the
tunnels to your services by running the following command: \`\`\`bash
symfony var:expose-from-tunnel \--off symfony tunnel:close \--all -y
\`\`\`

Back

FAQ

#Tethered When you develop a project, a significant amount of work takes
place locally rather than on an active Upsun environment. You want to
ensure that the process of local development is as close as possible to
a deployed environment. You can achieve this through various approaches.
For example, you can use Symfony Server with tethered data. To do so,
when testing changes locally, you can connect your locally running
Symfony Server to service containers on an active Upsun environment.
This methodology has several advantages: - It avoids installing anything
on your local machine but your stack runtime. - It ensures that you are
using the same versions of all services on your local machine and in
production.

### Warning

Never use this method on the **main** environment as changes made on
your local machine will impact production data.

\## 1. Start your local Server Use the official path to start your local
server locally. \## 2. Create the tethered connection 1. Create a new
environment off of production: \`\`\`bash upsun branch new-feature main
\`\`\` 1. Open an SSH tunnel to the new environment\'s services:
\`\`\`bash upsun tunnel:open \`\`\`\` This command returns the addresses
for SSH tunnels to all of your services that you can then use within
your local source code: \`\`\`bash upsun tunnel:open SSH tunnel opened
to rediscache at: redis://127.0.0.1:30000 SSH tunnel opened to database
at: pgsql://main:main@127.0.0.1:30001/main Logs are written to:
/Users/acmeUser/.upsun/tunnels.log List tunnels with: upsun tunnels View
tunnel details with: upsun tunnel:info Close tunnels with: upsun
tunnel:close Save encoded tunnel details to the PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS
variable using: export PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS=\"\$(upsun tunnel:info
\--encode)\" \`\`\` 1. When you\'ve finished your work, close the
tunnels to your services by running the following command: \`\`\`bash
upsun tunnel:close \--all -y \`\`\` #Deploy Flask on {{% vendor/name %}}

### Note

Before you start, check out the Upsun demo app and the main Getting
started guide. They provide all of the core concepts and common commands
you need to know before using the materials below.

For Flask to successfully deploy and operate, \*\*after completing the
\[Getting started guide\](/get-started/here/\_index.md)\*\*, you still
need to make a few changes to your Upsun configuration. \## Before you
begin You need: - \[Git\](https://git-scm.com/downloads). Git is the
primary tool to manage everything your app needs to run. Push commits to
deploy changes and control configuration through YAML files. These files
describe your infrastructure, making it transparent and
version-controlled. - A Upsun account. If you don\'t already have one,
\[register for a trial account\](https://auth.upsun.com/register). You
can sign up with an email address or an existing GitHub, Bitbucket, or
Google account. If you choose one of these accounts, you can set a
password for your Upsun account later. - The \[Upsun
CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md). This lets you interact with your
project from the command line. You can also do most things through the
\[Web Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md). \## 1. Leverage
environment variables The CLI generated a \`.environment\` file during
the Getting started guide. Notice it has already created some
environmental variables for you to connect to your database service.
\`\`\`bash {} export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=\"\$(echo
\$PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS \| base64 \--decode)\" \# Set database
environment variables export DB_HOST=\"\$(echo \$RELATIONSHIPS_JSON \|
jq -r \'.postgresql\[0\].host\')\" export DB_PORT=\"\$(echo
\$RELATIONSHIPS_JSON \| jq -r \'.postgresql\[0\].port\')\" export
DB_DATABASE=\"\$(echo \$RELATIONSHIPS_JSON \| jq -r
\'.postgresql\[0\].path\')\" export DB_USERNAME=\"\$(echo
\$RELATIONSHIPS_JSON \| jq -r \'.postgresql\[0\].username\')\" export
DB_PASSWORD=\"\$(echo \$RELATIONSHIPS_JSON \| jq -r
\'.postgresql\[0\].password\')\" export DB_CONNECTION=\"\$(echo
\$RELATIONSHIPS_JSON \| jq -r \'.postgresql\[0\].scheme\')\" export
DATABASE_URL=\"postgresql://\${DB_USERNAME}:\${DB_PASSWORD}@\${DB_HOST}:\${DB_PORT}/\${DB_DATABASE}\"
\`\`\` To configure all the environment variables Flask needs to run
smoothly, follow these steps. 1. Set the \`FLASK_APP\` environment
variable to specify how to load the app. \`\`\`bash {} export FLASK\_
\`\`\` The above example uses the file \`autoapp.py\` as the main entry.
Adjust according to your situation. 2. Set the \`FLASK_ENV\` environment
variable to enable behaviors based on the environment type. Upsun
provides information about what type of environment the app is running
in via the \`PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\` environment variable. Its
values can be \`\`production\`\`, \`\`development\`\`, or
\`\`staging\`\`. Use this information to set the value for
\`FLASK_ENV\`. \`\`\`bash {} export
FLASK_ENV=\"\${PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE}\" \`\`\` Several other
environmental variables need to change based on the environment type.
Leverage the information in \`PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\` for these
other variables too. 3. Set the \`FLASK_DEBUG\` environment variable to
\`\`1\`\` (enabled) if you\'re not running in production. \`\`\`bash {}
export FLASK_DEBUG=\$( \[ \"\${PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE}\" =
\"production\" \] && echo 0 \|\| echo 1) \`\`\` 4. Do the same for
\`LOG_LEVEL\`. \`\`\`bash {} export LOG_LEVEL=\$( \[
\"\${PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE}\" = \"production\" \] && echo \"info\"
\|\| echo \"debug\") \`\`\` 5. Set the \`SEND_FILE_MAX_AGE_DEFAULT\` to
\`\`0\`\` (disabled) if you\'re not in production, but a higher value if
you are. \`\`\`bash {} export SEND_FILE_MAX_AGE_DEFAULT=\$( \[
\"\${PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE}\" = \"production\" \] && echo 31556926
\|\| echo 0) \`\`\` 6. Optional: You may also need to set a
\`SECRET_KEY\` environment variable. It\'s used for securely signing the
session cookie and can be used for any other security-related needs by
extensions or your app. It usually is a long random string. Set the
\`SECRET_KEY\` environment variable to leverage the
\[\`PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\`
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables#use-provided-variables)
provided by Upsun: \`\`\`bash {} export
SECRET_KEY=\"\${PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY}\" \`\`\` Your \`.environment\`
file should now look similar to the following: \`\`\`bash {} \# Set
database environment variables export DB_HOST=\"\$POSTGRESQL_HOST\"
export DB_PORT=\"\$POSTGRESQL_PORT\" export
DB_PATH=\"\$POSTGRESQL_PATH\" export
DB_USERNAME=\"\$POSTGRESQL_USERNAME\" export
DB_PASSWORD=\"\$POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD\" export DB\_ export
DATABASE_URL=\"\${DB_SCHEME}://\${DB_USERNAME}:\${DB_PASSWORD}@\${DB_HOST}:\${DB_PORT}/\${DB_PATH}\"
export FLASK_ENV=\"\${PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE}\" export
FLASK_DEBUG=\$( \[ \"\${PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE}\" = \"production\" \]
&& echo 0 \|\| echo 1) export LOG_LEVEL=\$( \[
\"\${PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE}\" = \"production\" \] && echo \"info\"
\|\| echo \"debug\") export SEND_FILE_MAX_AGE_DEFAULT=\$( \[
\"\${PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE}\" = \"production\" \] && echo 31556926
\|\| echo 0) export SECRET_KEY=\"\${PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY}\" \`\`\`
\## 2. Configure static assets You need to add some writable disk space
to hold the static assets that \`flask-static-digest\` generates and
\`npm\` builds. To do so, define the \`.//static\` directory as \[a
mount\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#mounts). In your
app configuration, locate the section dedicated to mounts and update it
as follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \... mounts: \"/static\":
source: \"storage\" source_path: \"static_assets\" \`\`\` Replace \`\`
with the \`app_name\` you defined when creating your Flask project. \##
3. Install dependencies and builds Instruct Upsun to automatically run
\`npm install\` in addition to installing your Python dependencies when
building the application container. To do so, customize your \[build
hook\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.html#build-hook). In your app
configuration, locate the section dedicated to it and update it as
follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \... \# Hooks allow you to
customize your code/environment as the project moves through the build
and deploy stages \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/app-reference.html#hooks hooks: \#
The build hook is run after any build flavor. \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.html#build-hook
build: \| set -eux pip install -r requirements.txt \`\`\` The Upsun CLI
automatically added \`pip install -r requirements.txt\` to your build
hook configuration when you \[configured your Upsun
project\](/get-started/here/configure/\_index.md). If you want \`pip\`
to be upgraded first to the latest version, add \`pip install \--upgrade
pip\` to the above line. Then, add \`npm install\`: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: \... \# Hooks allow you to customize your
code/environment as the project moves through the build and deploy
stages \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/app-reference.html#hooks hooks: \#
The build hook is run after any build flavor. \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.html#build-hook
build: \| set -eux pip install \--upgrade pip pip install -r
requirements.txt npm install \`\`\` Note that if your project uses a
different package manager, Upsun also supports \[several other
options\](/languages/python/dependencies.md). \## 4. Configure the
deploy phase Instruct Upsun to automatically run \`npm run build\` when
building the application container. To do so, customize your \[deploy
hook\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.html#deploy-hook). In your
app configuration, locate the section dedicated to it: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: \... \# Hooks allow you to customize your
code/environment as the project moves through the build and deploy
stages \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/app-reference.html#hooks hooks: \...
\# The deploy hook is run after the app container has been started, but
before it has started accepting requests. \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.html#deploy-hook
deploy: \| set -eux \# echo \'Put your deploy command here\' \`\`\` Add
\`npm run build\`: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \... \# Hooks
allow you to customize your code/environment as the project moves
through the build and deploy stages \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/app-reference.html#hooks hooks: \...
\# The deploy hook is run after the app container has been started, but
before it has started accepting requests. \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.html#deploy-hook
deploy: \| set -eux npm run build \`\`\` \## 5. Configure the web server
\[Configure the web
server\](/create-apps/\_index.md#configure-whats-served) running in
front of your app to define how your app handles dynamic requests. To do
so, in your app configuration, locate the section dedicated to the web
server: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \... \# The web key
configures the web server running in front of your app. \# More
information: https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/app-reference.html#web
web: \# Commands are run once after deployment to start the application
process. \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/app-reference.html#web-commands
\`\`\` To add a basic Flask server, replace the default information
added by the Upsun CLI with \`flask run -p \$PORT\`. Also, change the
\`socket_family\` value from \`unix\` to \`tcp\`: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: \... \# The web key configures the web server
running in front of your app. \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/app-reference.html#web web: \#
Commands are run once after deployment to start the application process.
\# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/app-reference.html#web-commands
commands: start: \"flask run -p \$PORT\" upstream: socket_family: tcp
\`\`\` You can now commit all of the above changes and push to Upsun.
\`\`\`bash {} git add . git commit -m \"Add changes to complete my Upsun
configuration\" git push \`\`\` Note that if your Flask project requires
a different web server, Upsun also supports \[several other
options\](/languages/python/server.md), including Gunicorn, Daphne,
Uvicorn, and Hypercorn. If you use Pip, make sure you add your chosen
web server to your \`requirements.txt\` file. \## 6. Handle database
migrations \### Prepare database migrations If you have a new Flask
project that uses
\[Flask-migrate\](https://flask-migrate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), or
an existing app but need to set up the initial migrations, you can do so
using the database service you created earlier. To do so, follow these
steps. 1. Set up a virtual environment where your project can run:
\`\`\`bash {} python3 -m venv env && source venv/bin/activate \`\`\` 2.
Just like in your build hook, update pip and install the requirements:
\`\`\`bash {} pip install \--upgrade pip && pip install -r
requirements.txt \`\`\` 3. Set up a way for your local instance of Flask
to communicate with your database service: \`\`\`bash {} upsun
tunnel:open -y \`\`\` This opens an SSH tunnel to all the services for
the app. You can use this connection to allow your local instance to
communicate with live services as if they too were local. To do so, you
need to configure more environment variables. 4. Reopen your
\`.environment\` file. Note the use of the \`\$PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`
environment variable to retrieve information about services and their
credentials. The tunnel you created gives you access to that same data,
allowing you to generate a local \`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` environment
variable containing the same information. Set the following environment
variable: \`\`\`bash {} export PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS=\"\$(upsun
tunnel:info \--encode)\" \`\`\` Since you now have this environmental
variable set locally, you can reuse your \`.environment\` file for Upsun
to recreate many of the other environmental variables you need to run
locally. 5. Set the following environment variables as they aren\'t set
via \`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\`: \`\`\`bash {} export
PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE=production export PORT=8888 export
PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY=\$(openssl rand -base64 32) \`\`\` 6. Source
your \`.environment\` file to finish setting up all the environmental
variables in your current bash: \`\`\`bash {} source ./.environment
\`\`\` You now have everything you need for Flask-Migrate to be able to
connect to the database and generate your migration files. \### Generate
database migrations 1. Initiate the migrations directory and prepare for
the \`\`migrate\`\` command: \`\`\`bash {} flask db init \`\`\` 2.
Generate your migrations: \`\`\`bash {} flask db migrate \`\`\` 3.
Commit your generated migrations: \`\`\`bash {} git add migrations/\* &&
git commit -m \"Adds migrations\" \`\`\` 4. Instruct Upsun to run the
Flask-migrate upgrade command when deploying so any migration changes
are automatically applied. To do so, re-open your \`.upsun/config.yaml\`
file. Locate the \`deploy\` hook where you added \`npm run build\`
previously and update it as follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
\... \# Hooks allow you to customize your code/environment as the
project moves through the build and deploy stages \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/app-reference.html#hooks hooks: \...
\# The deploy hook is run after the app container has been started, but
before it has started accepting requests. \# More information:
https://docs.upsun.com/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.html#deploy-hook
deploy: \| set -eux npm run build flask db upgrade \`\`\` 5. Commit all
your changes and push to Upsun. \`\`\`bash {} git add . git commit -m
\"Add changes to complete my Upsun configuration\" git push \`\`\` \##
Further resources \### Documentation - \[Python
documentation\](/languages/python/) - \[Managing
dependencies\](/languages/python/dependencies) - \[Configuring web
servers\](/languages/python/server) \### Community content - \[Flask
topics\](https://support.platform.sh/hc/en-us/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=flask) -
\[Python
topics\](https://support.platform.sh/hc/en-us/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=python)
\### Blogs - \[Up(sun) and running with
Django\](https://upsun.com/blog/setting-up-django-on-upsun/) #Kafka
(Message queue service) Apache Kafka is an open-source stream-processing
software platform. It is a framework for storing, reading and analyzing
streaming data. See the \[Kafka
documentation\](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation) for more
information. \## Supported versions You can select the major and minor
version. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and the
like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest available
patches.

-   3.7
-   3.6
-   3.4
-   3.2

\## Relationship reference For each service \[defined via a
relationship\](#usage-example) to your application, Upsun automatically
generates corresponding environment variables within your application
container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format. Here is example information
available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running \`\`upsun ssh env\`\`. Note
that the information about the relationship can change when an app is
redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

`KAFKA_SERVICE=kafka KAFKA_IP=123.456.78.90 KAFKA_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.kafka.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site KAFKA_CLUSTER=azertyuiop-main-7rqtwti KAFKA_HOST=kafka.internal KAFKA_REL=kafka KAFKA_SCHEME=kafka KAFKA_TYPE=kafka:3.7 KAFKA_PORT=9092`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "service": "kafka", "ip": "123.456.78.90", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.kafka.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "cluster": "azertyuiop-main-7rqtwti", "host": "kafka.internal", "rel": "kafka", "scheme": "kafka", "type": "kafka:3.7", "port": 9092 }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_KAFKA_HOST="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.kafka[0].host')"`
\## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`\`kafka\`\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the
service container. Must be unique within a project. : type: kafka:
\`\`\` Note that changing the name of the service replaces it with a
brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back up your data
before changing the service. \### 2. Define the relationship To define
the relationship, use the following configuration:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the *name* of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container (`<APP_NAME>`) now
has [access to the service](/add-services/kafka.html#use-in-app) via the
relationship `<SERVICE_NAME>` and its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: kafka`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

\### Example configuration

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: kafka: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. kafka: type: kafka:3.7`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: kafka: service: kafka endpoint: kafka services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. kafka: type: kafka:3.7`
\### Use in app To use the configured service in your app, add a
configuration file similar to the following to your project.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Python
-   Ruby

**Heads up!**

The file `static/files/fetch/examples/python/kafka` was not found. Did
you define it in `docs/data/remote-examples` to be downloaded?

` ## With the ruby-kafka gem # Producer require "kafka" kafka = Kafka.new(["kafka.internal:9092"], client_id: "my-application") kafka.deliver_message("Hello, World!", topic: "greetings") # Consumer kafka.each_message(topic: "greetings") do |message| puts message.offset, message.key, message.value end `
#Deploy WordPress on {{% vendor/name %}}

### Note

Before you start, check out the Upsun demo app and the main Getting
started guide. They provide all the core concepts and common commands
you need to know before using the following materials.

For WordPress to successfully deploy and operate, \*\*after completing
the \[Getting started guide\](/get-started/here/\_index.md)\*\*, you
still need to add some required files and make a few changes to your
Upsun configuration. \## Before you begin You need: -
\[Git\](https://git-scm.com/downloads). Git is the primary tool to
manage everything your app needs to run. Push commits to deploy changes
and control configuration through YAML files. These files describe your
infrastructure, making it transparent and version-controlled. - A Upsun
account. If you don\'t already have one, \[register for a trial
account\](https://auth.upsun.com/register). You can sign up with an
email address or an existing GitHub, Bitbucket, or Google account. If
you choose one of these accounts, you can set a password for your Upsun
account later. - The \[Upsun CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md). This
lets you interact with your project from the command line. You can also
do most things through the \[Web
Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md).

### Assumptions

There are many ways you can set up a WordPress site or Upsun project.
The instructions on this page were designed based on the following
assumptions:

-   You are building a composer-based WordPress site using John P
    Bloch's WordPress Composer Fork.
-   You do not have a `composer.json` file, or are comfortable making
    changes to your existing version.
-   You selected PHP as your runtime, and MariaDB as a service during
    the Getting Started guide. It's also assumed that while using the
    Getting Started guide you named the project `myapp`, which you will
    notice is the top-level key in all configuration below.

\## 1. Add required files To ensure you have all the required files and
directories in your project, follow these steps: 1. Copy the following
files from the \[WordPress Composer
template\](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/wordpress-composer/)
and add them to the root of your project: - The
\[composer.json\](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh-templates/wordpress-composer/61da65da21039b280b588642cd329a2eb253e472/composer.json)
file declares project dependencies and specifies project settings and
metadata for \[Composer\](https://getcomposer.org/) to use - The
\[wp-cli.yml\](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/wordpress-composer/blob/61da65da21039b280b588642cd329a2eb253e472/wp-cli.yml)
file contains the configuration values, related to your site, for the
\[WordPress CLI\](https://wp-cli.org/) to use - The
\[wp-config.php\](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/wordpress-composer/blob/61da65da21039b280b588642cd329a2eb253e472/wp-config.php)
file contains your site\'s base configuration details, such as database
connection information 2. Optional: To support non-public plugins, add a
\`plugins\` directory to your project. To ensure Git tracks empty
folders, add a \`plugins/.gitkeep\` file as well. 3. Add and commit your
changes. \`\`\`bash {} git add . git commit -m \"Add files and
directory\" git push \`\`\` Now that you have pushed all the necessary
files and directories to Upsun, make the following changes to your
\`./.upsun/config.yaml\` file. \## 2. Configure your root location
Locate the \`web:locations\` section and update the root (\`/\`)
location as follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root:
\"/\" type: \'php:8.3\' web: locations: \"/\": passthru: \"/index.php\"
root: \"wordpress\" index: - \"index.php\" expires: 600 scripts: true
allow: true rules: \^/license\\.text\$: allow: false \^/readme\\.html\$:
allow: false \`\`\`

### Note

If you're migrating your site, you may already have a `composer.json`
file. You may even have generated your own instead of starting from the
Platform.sh template version. If so, you may also have added a
[`wordpress-install-dir`
property](https://github.com/johnpbloch/wordpress-core-installer?tab=readme-ov-file#usage)
for `extras` in your `composer.json` file. In this case, set `root:` to
the name of the directory where you are installing WordPress.

\## 3. Set up a location for uploads WordPress needs a writable location
to store uploaded media. To set one up, follow these steps: 1. Create
the location. To do so, add a \`/wp-content/uploads\` location as
follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type:
\'php:8.3\' web: locations: \"/\": passthru: \"/index.php\" root:
\"wordpress\" index: - \"index.php\" expires: 600 scripts: true allow:
true rules: \^/license\\.text\$: allow: false \^/readme\\.html\$: allow:
false \"/wp-content/uploads\": root: \"wordpress/wp-content/uploads\"
scripts: false allow: false rules: \'(? To do so, locate the \`mounts:\`
section that is commented it out, and update it as follows: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: \'php:8.3\' \...
mounts: \"wordpress/wp-content/uploads\": source: storage source_path:
\"uploads\" \`\`\`

### Note

If you have designated a different directory through the
`wordpress-install-dir` property in your `composer.json` file, update
the mount location accordingly.

\## 4. Install dependencies during the build hook To ensure your
Composer dependencies are installed during the \[build
stage\](/learn/overview/build-deploy.md#the-build), locate the
\`build:\` section (below the \`hooks:\` section). Update the \`build:\`
section as follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root:
\"/\" type: \'php:8.3\' \... hooks: build: \| set -eux composer install
\--prefer-dist \--optimize-autoloader \--apcu-autoloader \--no-progress
\--no-ansi \--no-interaction rsync -a plugins/
wordpress/wp-content/plugins/ \`\`\` You can adjust the \`composer
install\` command to meet your specific requirements. If you aren\'t
using the \`plugins\` directory to manage non-public plugins, remove the
\`rsync\` command. \## 5. Launch tasks during the deploy hook Some tasks
need to be performed after the images for our application are built, but
before the newly built application can receive requests. Therefore, the
best time to launch them is during the \[deploy
hook\](/learn/overview/build-deploy.md#deploy-steps). Such tasks
include: - Flushing the object cache, which might have changed between
current production and newly deployed changes - Running the WordPress
database update procedure, in case core is being updated with the newly
deployed changes - Running any due cron jobs To launch these tasks
during the deploy hook, locate the \`deploy:\` section (below the
\`build:\` section). Update the \`deploy:\` section as follows:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: \'php:8.3\'
\... hooks: deploy: \| set -eux \# Flushes the object cache wp cache
flush \# Runs the WordPress database update procedure wp core update-db
\# Runs all due cron events wp cron event run \--due-now \`\`\` \## 6.
Configure your default route Next, instruct the
\[router\](learn/overview/structure.md#router) how to handle requests to
your WordPress app. To do so, locate the \`routes:\` section, and
beneath it, the \`\"https://{default}/\":\` route. Update the route as
follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type:
\'php:8.3\' \... routes: \"https://{default}/\": type: upstream
upstream: \"myapp:http\" cache: enabled: true cookies: -
\'/\^wordpress\_\*/\' - \'/\^wp-\*/\' \`\`\` Matching the application
name \`myapp\` with the \`upstream\` definition \`myapp:http\` is the
most important setting to ensure at this stage. If these strings aren\'t
the same, the WordPress deployment will not succeed. \## 7. Update your
MariaDB service relationship You need to update the name used to
represent the
\[relationship\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#relationships)
between your app and your MariaDB service. To do so, locate the
\`relationships:\` top-level property. Update the relationship for the
database service as follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source:
root: \"/\" type: \'php:8.3\' \# \... relationships: database:
\"mariadb:mysql\" \`\`\` You can now commit all the changes made to
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` and push to Upsun. \`\`\`bash {} git add . git
commit -m \"Add changes to complete my Upsun configuration\" git push
\`\`\` \## Further resources \### Documentation - \[PHP
documentation\](/languages/php/) -
\[Extensions\](/languages/php/extensions) - \[Performance
tuning\](/languages/php/tuning) - \[PHP-FPM
sizing\](/languages/php/fpm) - \[Authenticated
Composer\](/languages/php/composer-auth) \### Community content - \[PHP
topics\](https://support.platform.sh/hc/en-us/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=php) -
\[WordPress
topics\](https://support.platform.sh/hc/en-us/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=wordpress)
\### Blogs - \[To Upsun, a WordPress migration
story\](https://upsun.com/blog/to-upsun-a-wordpress-migration-story/)
#Pimcore PaaS \[Pimcore\](https://pimcore.com/) is an open-source
digital platform that aggregates, enriches, and manages enterprise data.
It provides up-to-date, consistent, and personalized experiences to
customers. In a seamlessly integrated platform, Pimcore offers a
centralized solution for Product Information Management, Master Data
Management, Digital Asset Management, Customer Data Platforms, Digital
Experience Platforms/Content Management Systems, and digital commerce.
Pimcore\'s PaaS solution is powered by Platform.sh, creators of Upsun.
For more information, see \[Pimcore\'s
documentation\](https://pimcore.com/docs/platform/next/Paas/). #Shopware
PaaS \[Shopware\](https://www.shopware.com/) is an e-commerce platform
to power your online business by offering top-of-the-line performance,
agility, and security. Shopware\'s PaaS solution is powered by
Platform.sh, creators of Upsun. For more information, see \[Shopware\'s
documentation\](https://developer.shopware.com/docs/products/paas/).
#Memcached (Object cache) Memcached is a simple in-memory object store
well-suited for application level caching. See the \[Memcached
documentation\](https://memcached.org) for more information. Both
Memcached and Redis can be used for application caching. As a general
rule, Memcached is simpler and thus more widely supported while Redis is
more robust. Upsun recommends using Redis if possible but Memcached is
fully supported if an application favors that cache service. \##
Supported versions You can select the major and minor version. Patch
versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and the like. When you
deploy your app, you always get the latest available patches.

-   1.6
-   1.5
-   1.4

\## Relationship reference For each service \[defined via a
relationship\](#usage-example) to your application, Upsun automatically
generates corresponding environment variables within your application
container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format. Here is example information
available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`MEMCACHED_SERVICE=memcached MEMCACHED_IP=123.456.78.90 MEMCACHED_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.memcached.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site MEMCACHED_CLUSTER=azertyuiopqsdf-main-afdwftq MEMCACHED_HOST=memcachedcache.internal MEMCACHED_REL=memcached MEMCACHED_SCHEME=memcached MEMCACHED_TYPE=memcached:1.6 MEMCACHED_PORT=11211`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "service": "memcached", "ip": "123.456.78.90", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.memcached.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "cluster": "azertyuiopqsdf-main-afdwftq", "host": "memcached.internal", "rel": "memcached", "scheme": "memcached", "type": "memcached:1.6", "port": 11211 }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_MEMCACHED_HOST="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.memcached[0].host')"`
\## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`\`memcached\`\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of
the service container. Must be unique within a project. : type:
memcached: \`\`\` Note that changing the name of the service replaces it
with a brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back up your
data before changing the service. \### 2. Define the relationship To
define the relationship, use the following configuration:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the *name* of that service.

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<SERVICE_NAME>` and its
corresponding [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: "<SERVICE_NAME>:memcached"`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

For PHP, enable the \[extension\](/languages/php/extensions.md) for the
service:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - memcached # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - memcached # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: "<SERVICE_NAME>:memcached"`
For Python, include the proper dependency:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Build dependencies per runtime. dependencies: python: python-memcached: '*' # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Build dependencies per runtime. dependencies: python: python-memcached: '*' # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: "<SERVICE_NAME>:memcached"`
\### Example configuration

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: memcached: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. memcached: type: memcached:1.6`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: memcached: "memcached:memcached" services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. memcached: type: memcached:1.6`
\### Use in app To use the configured service in your app, add a
configuration file similar to the following to your project.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - memcached [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: memcached: service: memcached: type: memcached:1.6`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - memcached [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: memcached: service: memcached endpoint: memcached service: memcached: type: memcached:1.6`
This configuration defines a single application (\`myapp\`), whose
source code exists in the \`/myapp\` directory. \`myapp\` has access to
the \`influxdb\` service, via a relationship whose name is \[identical
to the service name\](#2-define-the-relationship) (as per \[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships). From this, \`\`myapp\`\` can retrieve
access credentials to the service through the \[relationship environment
variables\](#relationship-reference). \`\`\`bash {} \# Surface a
Memcached connection string for use in app. \# For more information,
please visit
https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables.
export CACHE_URL=\"\${MEMCACHED_HOST}:\${MEMCACHED_PORT}\" \`\`\` The
above file --- \`\`.environment\`\` in the \`\`myapp\`\` directory ---
is automatically sourced by Upsun into the runtime environment, so that
the variable \`\`CACHE_URL\`\` can be used within the application to
connect to the service. Note that \`\`CACHE_URL\`\`, and all Upsun
\[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
like \`\`MEMCACHEDCACHE_HOST\`\`, are environment-dependent. Unlike the
build produced for a given commit, they can't be reused across
environments and only allow your app to connect to a single service
instance on a single environment. A file very similar to this is
generated automatically for your when using the \`\`upsun ify\`\`
command to \[migrate a codebase to Upsun\](/get-started/\_index.md). \##
Accessing Memcached directly To access the Memcached service directly
you can use \`netcat\` as Memcached doesn\'t have a dedicated client
tool. Assuming your Memcached relationship is named \`memcached\`, the
host name \`MEMCACHED_HOST\` and port number \`MEMCACHED_PORT\` obtained
from the \[service environment variable\](#relationship-reference) would
be \`memcached.internal\` and \`11211\`.\
Open an \[SSH session\](/development/ssh/\_index.md) and access the
Memcached server as follows: \`\`\`bash {} netcat memcached.internal
11211 \`\`\` You can obtain the complete list of available service
environment variables in your app container by running \`\`upsun ssh
env\`\`. Note that the information about the relationship can change
when an app is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed.
So your apps should only rely on the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values. #Project build resources
When you push changes through Git, your applications are first built,
then deployed. During the build process, Upsun creates a build image for
each of your application, as a dedicated build container, and runs your
build hooks inside that build container. The duration of the build
process is directly linked to the amount of resources (CPU and RAM)
allocated to that build container. Every Upsun project includes a fixed
amount of build resources per month: - 2.5 hours of build CPU - 5 hours
of build memory You can adjust the amount of build resources that a
project can use.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to your project.
2.  Access the **project settings**.
3.  Expand the Project Setting accordion and click **Resources**.
4.  Enter the amount of CPU and RAM that your build containers can use.
5.  Click **Save**.

<!-- -->

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun resources:build:set`

2.  Enter the amount of CPU.

3.  Enter the amount of RAM.

Additional build resources (CPU and RAM) are billed by the hour. For
more information on the costs incurred, see the \[Upsun pricing
page\](https://upsun.com/pricing/).

### Note

Make sure that your build process supports using extra build resources.
Otherwise, the duration of your builds will remain the same despite
adding more resources.

#MongoDB (Database service) MongoDB is a cross-platform,
document-oriented database.\
\
For more information on using MongoDB, see MongoDB's own documentation.
\## Supported versions You can select the major and minor version. Patch
versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and the like. When you
deploy your app, you always get the latest available patches.

-   7.0
-   6.0
-   5.0
-   4.4

\### Deprecated versions The following versions are
\[deprecated\](/glossary.html#deprecated-versions). They\'re available,
but they aren\'t receiving security updates from upstream and aren\'t
guaranteed to work. They\'ll be removed in the future, so migrate to one
of the \[supported versions\](#supported-versions).

-   4.2
-   4.0

\### Legacy edition Previous non-Enterprise versions are available in
your projects (and are listed below), but they\'re at their \[end of
life\](https://www.mongodb.com/support-policy/legacy) and are no longer
receiving security updates from upstream.

### Warning

Downgrades of MongoDB aren't supported. MongoDB updates its own data
files to a new version automatically but can't downgrade them. If you
want to experiment with a later version without committing to it use a
preview environment.

\### Deprecated versions The following versions are
\[deprecated\](/glossary.html#deprecated-versions). They\'re available,
but they aren\'t receiving security updates from upstream and aren\'t
guaranteed to work. They\'ll be removed in the future, so migrate to one
of the \[supported versions\](#supported-versions).

-   4.0.3
-   3.6
-   3.4
-   3.2
-   3.0

\## Relationship reference For each service \[defined via a
relationship\](#usage-example) to your application, Upsun automatically
generates corresponding environment variables within your application
container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format. Here is example information
available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`MONGODB_USERNAME=main MONGODB_SCHEME=mongodb MONGODB_SERVICE=mongodb MONGODB_IP=123.456.78.90 MONGODB_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.mongodb.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site MONGODB_CLUSTER=azertyuiop-main-7rqtwti MONGODB_HOST=mongodbdatabase.internal MONGODB_REL=mongodb MONGODB_QUERY={'is_master': True} MONGODB_PATH=main MONGODB_PASSWORD= MONGODB_TYPE=mongodb-enterprise:7.0 MONGODB_PORT=27017`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "username": "main", "scheme": "mongodb", "service": "mongodb", "ip": "123.456.78.90", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.mongodb.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "cluster": "azertyuiop-main-7rqtwti", "host": "mongodb.internal", "rel": "mongodb", "query": { "is_master": true }, "path": "main", "password": null, "type": "mongodb-enterprise:7.0", "port": 27017 }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_MONGODBDATABASE_HOST="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.mongodb[0].host')"`
\## Usage example \### Enterprise edition example \#### 1. Configure the
service To define the service, use the \`\`mongodb-enterprise\`\` type:
\`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the service container. Must be
unique within a project. : type: mongodb-enterprise: \`\`\` Note that
changing the name of the service replaces it with a brand new service
and all existing data is lost. Back up your data before changing the
service. \#### 2. Define the relationship To define the relationship,
use the following configuration:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the *name* of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container (`<APP_NAME>`) now
has [access to the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship
`<SERVICE_NAME>` and its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: mongodb`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

For PHP, enable the \[extension\](/languages/php/extensions.md) for the
service:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - mongodb # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - mongodb # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: mongodb`
\#### Example configuration

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - mongodb # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: mongodb-enterprise: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. mongodb-enterprise: type: mongodb-enterprise:7.0`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - mongodb # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: mongodb-enterprise: service: mongodb-enterprise endpoint: mongodb services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. mongodb-enterprise: type: mongodb-enterprise:7.0`
\### Legacy edition example \#### 1. Configure the service To define the
service, use the \`\`mongodb\`\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The
name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. : type:
mongodb: \`\`\` Note that changing the name of the service replaces it
with a brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back up your
data before changing the service. \#### 2. Define the relationship To
define the relationship, use the following configuration:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the *name* of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container (`<APP_NAME>`) now
has [access to the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship
`<SERVICE_NAME>` and its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: mongodb`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

For PHP, enable the \[extension\](/languages/php/extensions.md) for the
service:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - mongodb # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - mongodb # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: mongodb`
\#### Example configuration

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - mongodb # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: mongodb: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. mongodb: type: mongodb:4.0.3`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - mongodb # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: mongodb: service: mongodb endpoint: mongodb services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. mongodb: type: mongodb:4.0.3`
\### Use in app To use the configured service in your app, add a
configuration file similar to the following to your project.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - mongodb [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: mongodb: service: mongodb: type: mongodb-enterprise:7.0`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - mongodb [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: mongodb: service: mongodb endpoint: mongodb service: mongodb: type: mongodb-enterprise:7.0`
This configuration defines a single application (\`myapp\`), whose
source code exists in the \`/myapp\` directory. \`myapp\` has access to
the \`mongodb\` service, via a relationship whose name is \[identical to
the service name\](#2-define-the-relationship) (as per \[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships). From this, \`\`myapp\`\` can retrieve
access credentials to the service through the \[relationship environment
variables\](#relationship-reference). \`\`\`bash {} \# Set environment
variables for individual credentials. \# For more information, please
visit
https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables.
export DB_CONNECTION==\"\${MONGODB_SCHEME}\" export
DB_USERNAME=\"\${MONGODB_USERNAME}\" export
DB_PASSWORD=\"\${MONGODB_PASSWORD}\" export DB_HOST=\"\${MONGODB_HOST}\"
export DB_PORT=\"\${MONGODB_PORT}\" export
DB_DATABASE=\"\${MONGODB_PATH}\" \# Surface connection string variable
for use in app. export
DATABASE_URL=\"\${DB_CONNECTION}://\${DB_USERNAME}:\${DB_PASSWORD}@\${DB_HOST}:\${DB_PORT}/\${DB_DATABASE}\"
\`\`\` The above file --- \`\`.environment\`\` in the \`\`myapp\`\`
directory --- is automatically sourced by Upsun into the runtime
environment, so that the variable \`\`DATABASE_URL\`\` can be used
within the application to connect to the service. Note that
\`\`DATABASE_URL\`\`, and all Upsun \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
like \`\`MONGODB_HOST\`\`, are environment-dependent. Unlike the build
produced for a given commit, they can't be reused across environments
and only allow your app to connect to a single service instance on a
single environment. A file very similar to this is generated
automatically for your when using the \`\`upsun ify\`\` command to
\[migrate a codebase to Upsun\](/get-started/\_index.md). \## Access the
service directly You can access MongoDB from you app container via
\[SSH\](../development/ssh/\_index.md). Get the \`host\` from your
\[relationship\](#relationship-reference). Then run the following
command: \`\`\`bash mongo MONGODB_HOST \`\`\` With the example value,
that would be the following: \`\`\`bash mongo mongodb.internal \`\`\`
You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running \`\`upsun ssh env\`\`. Note
that the information about the relationship can change when an app is
redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values. \## Exporting data The most
straightforward way to export data from a MongoDB database is to open an
SSH tunnel to it and export the data directly using MongoDB\'s tools.
First, open an SSH tunnel with the Upsun CLI: \`\`\`bash upsun
tunnel:open \`\`\` That opens an SSH tunnel to all services on your
current environment and produce output like the following: \`\`\`bash
SSH tunnel opened on port 30000 to relationship: mongodb \`\`\` The port
may vary in your case. You also need to obtain the user, password, and
database name from the relationships array, as above. Then, connect to
that port locally using \`mongodump\` (or your favorite MongoDB tools)
to export all data in that server: \`\`\`bash mongodump \--port 30000 -u
main -p main \--authenticationDatabase main \--db main \`\`\` (If
necessary, vary the \`-u\`, \`-p\`, \`\--authenticationDatabase\` and
\`\--db\` flags.) As with any other shell command it can be piped to
another command to compress the output or redirect it to a specific
file. For further references, see the \[official \`mongodump\`
documentation\](https://docs.mongodb.com/database-tools/mongodump/). \##
Upgrading To upgrade to 6.0 from a version earlier than 5.0, you must
successively upgrade major releases until you have upgraded to 5.0. For
example, if you are running a 4.2 image, you must upgrade first to 4.4
and then upgrade to 5.0 before you can upgrade to 6.0. For more details
on upgrading and how to handle potential application backward
compatibility issues, see the \[MongoDB release
notes\](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes).

### Note

Make sure you first test your migration on a separate branch.

Also, be sure to take a backup of your production environment **before**
you merge this change.

Downgrading isn\'t supported. If you want, for whatever reason, to
downgrade you should create a mongodump, remove the service, recreate
the service, and import your dump. #Network Storage The Network Storage
service enables a new kind of
\[mount\](../create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts)
that refers to a shared service rather than to a local directory. This
service allows you to store data and share it between different apps.
\## Supported versions You can select the major and minor version. Patch
versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and the like. When you
deploy your app, you always get the latest available patches.

-   2.0

This service is the Upsun network storage implementation, not the
version of a third-party application.

### Note

It isn't possible to upgrade or downgrade the network storage service
version while keeping existing data in place. Changing the service
version requires that the service be reinitialized. Any change to the
service version results in existing data becoming inaccessible.

\### Deprecated versions The following versions are
\[deprecated\](/glossary.html#deprecated-versions). They\'re available,
but they aren\'t receiving security updates from upstream and aren\'t
guaranteed to work. They\'ll be removed in the future, so migrate to one
of the \[supported versions\](#supported-versions).

-   1.0

\## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`\`network-storage\`\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The
name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. : type:
network-storage: \`\`\` \`\` must be \[RFC
1123\](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1123) compliant, and as such it
must: - Contain at most 63 characters - Contain only lowercase
alphanumeric characters or \`-\` (underscores \`\_\` are not allowed) -
Start with an alphanumeric character - End with an alphanumeric
character This is due to the fact that \`\` is used as hostname for the
network storage. Note that changing the name of the service replaces it
with a brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back up your
data before changing the service. \### 2. Add the mount To define the
mount accessible by your application, use the following configuration:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The name of the app container. Must be
unique within a project. : mounts: : source: service service:
source_path: services: \# The name of the service container. Must be
unique within a project. : type: network-storage: \`\`\` - \`\` is the
path to your mount within the app container (relative to the app's
root). - \`\` is the name you \[defined in step
1\](#1-configure-the-service). - \`\` specifies where the mount points
inside the service. If the \`source_path\` is an empty string
(\`\"\"\`), your mount points to the entire service. If you don't define
a \`source_path\`, Upsun uses the \`MOUNT_PATH\` as default value,
without leading or trailing slashes. For example, if your mount lives in
the \`/my/files/\` directory within your app container, it will point to
a \`my/files\` directory within the service. \### Example configuration
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The name of the app container. Must be
unique within a project. myapp: mounts: \'my/files\': source: service
service: network-storage source_path: files services: \# The name of the
service container. Must be unique within a project. network-storage:
type: network-storage:2.0 \`\`\` \## Multi-application usage If your
project contains \[multiple apps\](../create-apps/multi-app/\_index.md),
they may \[share \`storage\`
mounts\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#share-a-mount-between-several-apps).
Alternatively, they may use shared \`service\` mounts. If the
\`source_path\` is the same for both apps, the files are shared between
the two applications even if the mount location is different. It\'s also
possible to have one app mount a \`source_path\` that\'s a subdirectory
of another application\'s mount. For example: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: \# The name of the app container. Must be unique within a
project. app1: \# The location of the application\'s code. source: root:
\"app1\" \[\...\] mounts: \# The path to your mount within the app
container (relative to the app\'s root). \'web/uploads\': \# Specifies
that the mount points to a network storage service that can be shared
between apps. source: service \# The name of the network storage service
the mount points to. service: network-storage \# Specifies where your
mount points inside the external directory that is mounted to your app
container. source_path: uploads \# The name of the app container. Must
be unique within a project. app2: \# The location of the application\'s
code. source: root: \"app2\" \[\...\] mounts: \# The path to your mount
within the app container (relative to the app\'s root). \'process\': \#
Specifies that the mount points to a network storage service that can be
shared between apps. source: service \# The name of the network storage
service the mount points to. service: network-storage \# Specifies where
your mount points inside the external directory that is mounted to your
app container. \# Since the target is the uploads directory app1\'s
mount already points to, \# the network storage service is effectively
shared between app1 and app2. source_path: uploads/incoming \# The path
to your mount within the app container (relative to the app\'s root).
\'done\': \# Specifies that the mount points to a network storage
service that can be shared between apps. source: service \# The name of
the network storage service the mount points to. service:
network-storage \# Specifies where your mount points inside the external
directory that is mounted to your app container. \# Since the target is
the uploads directory app1\'s mount already points to, \# the network
storage service is effectively shared between app1 and app2.
source_path: uploads/done \`\`\` In this example, \`app1\` has access to
the entire \`uploads\` directory by writing to \`web/uploads\`. \`app2\`
has two mounts that it can write to: \`process\` and \`done\`. The
\`process\` mount refers to the same directory as the
\`web/uploads/incoming\` directory does on \`app1\`, and the \`done\`
mount refers to the same directory as the \`web/uploads/done\` directory
on \`app1\`. \## How do I give my workers access to my main
application's files? If you need to use a worker with access to the same
file mount as your web-serving app, define all the necessary mounts as
\`service\` mounts. The following example assumes a Network Storage
service named \`files\` has been defined in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`.
Drupal files directories are shared between the \`web\` and \`worker\`
instances, while the Drush backup directory is unique to the \`web\`
instance. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type:
\"php:8.4\" \[\...\] mounts: \# The public and private files directories
are \# network mounts shared by web and workers.
\'web/sites/default/files\': source: service service: files source_path:
files \'private\': source: service service: files source_path: private
\# The backup, temp, and cache directories for \# Drupal\'s CLI tools
don\'t need to be shared between web and workers. \# It wouldn\'t hurt
anything to make them network \# shares, however. \'/.drush\': source:
storage source_path: drush \'tmp\': source: tmp source_path: tmp
\'drush-backups\': source: storage source_path: drush-backups
\'/.console\': source: storage source_path: console \# Crons run on the
web container, so they have the \# same mounts as the web container.
crons: drupal: spec: \'\*/20 \* \* \* \*\' commands: start: \'cd web ;
drush core-cron\' \# The worker defined here also has the same 6 mounts;
\# 2 of them are shared with the web container, \# the other 4 are local
to the worker. workers: queue: commands: start: \| cd web && drush
queue-run myqueue \`\`\` \## How can I migrate data from a \`storage\`
mount to a \`service\` mount? Network Storage \`service\` mounts can be
shared between different apps, while \`storage\` mounts can only be
shared between different \_instances\_ of the same app. To move data
from a \`storage\` mount to a \`service\` one, follow these
instructions. Assuming you have the following \`storage\` mount:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \[\...\] mounts: web/uploads: source:
storage source_path: uploads \`\`\` 1. Add a new \`network-storage\`
service to your configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
\[\...\] mounts: web/uploads: source: storage source_path: uploads
services: \# The name of the service container. Must be unique within a
project. network-storage: type: network-storage:2.0 \`\`\`

### Note

Make sure you [allocate enough disk
space](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.html#vertical-scaling) to your
`network-storage` service for your existing files with some buffer.

2\. Add a new \`service\` mount, named \`new-uploads\`: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: \[\...\] mounts: web/uploads: source: storage
source_path: uploads new-uploads: source: service service:
network-storage source_path: uploads services: \# The name of the
service container. Must be unique within a project. network-storage:
type: network-storage:2.0 \`\`\` Note that each mount is on a different
storage service, which is why they can have the same \`source_path\`. 3.
Deploy your changes. 4. Copy all your files from the \`storage\`
(\`web/uploads\`) mount to the \`service\` (\`new-uploads\`) mount using
\`rsync\`: \`\`\`bash rsync -avz web/uploads/\* new-uploads/ \`\`\` 5.
Reverse the mounts. To do so, rename the \`storage\` mount to
\`old-uploads\`, and point the \`web/uploads\` directory to the
\`service\` mount: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \[\...\] mounts:
old-uploads: source: storage source_path: uploads web/uploads: source:
service service: network-storage source_path: uploads services: \# The
name of the service container. Must be unique within a project.
network-storage: type: network-storage:2.0 \`\`\` 6. Push your changes
and check that the files are now accessible from the \`service\` mount
(now named \`web/uploads\`). To check that no files were lost during the
transfer, run the following command: \`\`\`bash rsync -avz
old-uploads/\* web/uploads/ \`\`\` 7. Delete the contents of the
\`old-uploads\` \`storage\` mount before removing it. 8. Push your
changes again. #OpenSearch (search service) OpenSearch is a distributed
RESTful search engine built for the cloud. See the \[OpenSearch
documentation\](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/) for more
information. To switch from Elasticsearch, follow the same procedure as
for \[upgrading\](#upgrading). \## Supported versions In the list below,
notice that there you only specify the major version. Each version
represents a rolling release of the latest minor version available from
the upstream. The latest compatible minor version and patches are
applied automatically.

-   2
-   1

You can see the latest minor and patch versions of OpenSearch available
from the \[\`2.x\`\](https://opensearch.org/lines/2x.html) and
\[\`1.x\`\](https://opensearch.org/lines/1x.html) (1.3) release lines.
\## Deprecated versions The following versions are still available in
your projects, but they\'re at their end of life and are no longer
receiving security updates from upstream, or are no longer the
recommended way to configure the service on Upsun.

-   1.2
-   1.1

To ensure your project remains stable in the future, switch to \[a
supported version\](#supported-versions). \## Relationship reference For
each service \[defined via a relationship\](#usage-example) to your
application, Upsun automatically generates corresponding environment
variables within your application container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format.
Here is example information available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`OPENSEARCH_USERNAME= OPENSEARCH_SCHEME=http OPENSEARCH_SERVICE=opensearch OPENSEARCH_FRAGMENT= OPENSEARCH_IP=123.456.78.90 OPENSEARCH_INSTANCE_IPS=['123.456.78.90'] OPENSEARCH_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.opensearch.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site OPENSEARCH_PORT=9200 OPENSEARCH_CLUSTER=azertyuiopqsdf-main-afdwftq OPENSEARCH_EPOCH=0 OPENSEARCH_HOST=opensearch.internal OPENSEARCH_REL=opensearch OPENSEARCH_PATH= OPENSEARCH_PASSWORD=ChangeMe OPENSEARCH_QUERY={} OPENSEARCH_TYPE=opensearch:2 OPENSEARCH_PUBLIC=false OPENSEARCH_HOST_MAPPED=false`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "username": null, "scheme": "http", "service": "opensearch", "fragment": null, "ip": "169.254.99.100", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.opensearch.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "port": 9200, "cluster": "azertyuiopqsdf-main-7rqtwti", "host": "opensearch.internal", "rel": "opensearch", "path": null, "query": [], "password": "ChangeMe", "type": "opensearch:2", "public": false, "host_mapped": false }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_OPENSEARCH_HOST="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.opensearch[0].host')"`
\## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`\`opensearch\`\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of
the service container. Must be unique within a project. : type:
opensearch: \`\`\` Note that changing the name of the service replaces
it with a brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back up your
data before changing the service. \### 2. Define the relationship To
define the relationship, use the following configuration:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the *name* of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container (`<APP_NAME>`) now
has [access to the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship
`<SERVICE_NAME>` and its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: opensearch`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

\### Example configuration

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: opensearch: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. opensearch: type: opensearch:2`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: opensearch: service: opensearch endpoint: opensearch services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. opensearch: type: opensearch:2`
\### Use in app To use the configured service in your app, add a
configuration file similar to the following to your project.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: opensearch: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. opensearch: type: opensearch:2`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: opensearch: service: opensearch endpoint: opensearch services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. opensearch: type: opensearch:2`
This configuration defines a single application (\`myapp\`), whose
source code exists in the \`/myapp\` directory. \`myapp\` has access to
the \`opensearch\` service, via a relationship whose name is \[identical
to the service name\](#2-define-the-relationship) (as per \[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships). From this, \`\`myapp\`\` can retrieve
access credentials to the service through the \[relationship environment
variables\](#relationship-reference). \`\`\`bash {} \# Set environment
variables for individual credentials. \# For more information, please
visit
https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables.
export OS_SCHEME=\${OPENSEARCH_SCHEME} export
OS_HOST=\${OPENSEARCH_HOST} export OS_PORT=\${OPENSEARCH_PORT} \#
Surface more common OpenSearch connection string variables for use in
app. export OS_USERNAME=\${OPENSEARCH_USERNAME} export
OS_PASSWORD=\${OPENSEARCH_PASSWORD} export
OPENSEARCH_HOSTS=\[\\\"\$OS_SCHEME://\$OS_HOST:\$OS_PORT\\\"\] \`\`\`
The above file --- \`\`.environment\`\` in the \`\`myapp\`\` directory
--- is automatically sourced by Upsun into the runtime environment, so
that the variable \`\`OPENSEARCH_HOSTS\`\` can be used within the
application to connect to the service. Note that
\`\`OPENSEARCH_HOSTS\`\`, and all Upsun \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
like \`\`OPENSEARCH_HOST\`\`, are environment-dependent. Unlike the
build produced for a given commit, they can't be reused across
environments and only allow your app to connect to a single service
instance on a single environment. A file very similar to this is
generated automatically for your when using the \`\`upsun ify\`\`
command to \[migrate a codebase to Upsun\](/get-started/\_index.md).

### Note

When you create an index on OpenSearch, don't specify the
`number_of_shards` or `number_of_replicas` settings in your OpenSearch
API call. These values are set automatically based on available
resources.

\## Authentication By default, OpenSearch has no authentication. No
username or password is required to connect to it. You may optionally
enable HTTP Basic authentication. To do so, include the following in
your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \#
The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project.
opensearch: type: opensearch:2 configuration: authentication: enabled:
true \`\`\` That enables mandatory HTTP Basic auth on all requests. The
credentials are available in any relationships that point at that
service, in the \`OPENSEARCH_USERNAME\` and \`OPENSEARCH_PASSWORD\`
\[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables).
You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running \`\`upsun ssh env\`\`. Note
that the information about the relationship can change when an app is
redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values. This functionality is
generally not required if OpenSearch isn\'t exposed on its own public
HTTP route. However, certain applications may require it, or it allows
you to safely expose OpenSearch directly to the web. To do so, add a
route to \`.upsun/config.yaml\` that has \`opensearch:opensearch\` as
its upstream (where \`opensearch\` is whatever you named the service).
For example: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://www.os.{default}/\": type:
redirect to: \"https://os.{default}/\" \"https://os.{default}/\": type:
upstream upstream: \"opensearch:opensearch\" services: \# The name of
the service container. Must be unique within a project. opensearch:
configuration: authentication: enabled: true \`\`\` \## Plugins
OpenSearch offers a number of plugins. To enable them, list them under
the \`configuration.plugins\` key in your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file,
like so: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the service container.
Must be unique within a project. opensearch: configuration: plugins: -
analysis-icu \`\`\` In this example you\'d have the ICU analysis plugin
and the size mapper plugin. If there is a publicly available plugin you
need that isn\'t listed here, \[contact
support\](/learn/overview/get-support.md). \### Available plugins This
is the complete list of plugins that can be enabled: \| Plugin \|
Description \| 1 \| 2 \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\--\|\-\--\|
\| \`analysis-icu\` \| Support ICU Unicode text analysis \| \* \| \* \|
\| \`analysis-kuromoji\` \| Japanese language support \| \* \| \* \| \|
\`analysis-nori\` \| Integrates Lucene Nori analysis module into
OpenSearch \| \* \| \* \| \| \`analysis-phonetic\` \| Phonetic analysis
\| \* \| \* \| \| \`analysis-smartcn\` \| Smart Chinese Analysis Plugins
\| \* \| \* \| \| \`analysis-stempel\` \| Stempel Polish Analysis Plugin
\| \* \| \* \| \| \`analysis-ukrainian\` \| Ukrainian language support
\| \* \| \* \| \| \`ingest-attachment\` \| Extract file attachments in
common formats (such as PPT, XLS, and PDF) \| \* \| \* \| \|
\`mapper-annotated-text\` \| Adds support for text fields with markup
used to inject annotation tokens into the index \| \* \| \* \| \|
\`mapper-murmur3\` \| Murmur3 mapper plugin for computing hashes at
index-time \| \* \| \* \| \| \`mapper-size\` \| Size mapper plugin,
enables the \`\_size\` meta field \| \* \| \* \| \| \`repository-s3\` \|
Support for using S3 as a repository for Snapshot/Restore \| \* \| \* \|
\| \`transport-nio\` \| Support for NIO transport \| \* \| \* \| \###
Plugin removal Removing plugins previously added in your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file doesn\'t automatically uninstall them from
your OpenSearch instances. This is deliberate, as removing a plugin may
result in data loss or corruption of existing data that relied on that
plugin. Removing a plugin usually requires reindexing. To permanently
remove a previously enabled plugin, \[upgrade the service\](#upgrading)
to create a new instance of OpenSearch and migrate to it. In most cases
it isn\'t necessary as an unused plugin has no appreciable impact on the
server. \## Upgrading The OpenSearch data format sometimes changes
between versions in incompatible ways. OpenSearch doesn\'t include a
data upgrade mechanism as it\'s expected that all indexes can be
regenerated from stable data if needed. To upgrade (or downgrade)
OpenSearch, use a new service from scratch. There are two ways to do so.
\### Destructive In your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file, change the version
\*and\* name of your OpenSearch service. Be sure to also update the
reference to the now changed service name in it\'s corresponding
application\'s \`relationship\` block. When you push that to Upsun, the
old service is deleted and a new one with the new name is created with
no data. You can then have your application reindex data as appropriate.
This approach has the downsides of temporarily having an empty
OpenSearch instance, which your application may or may not handle
gracefully, and needing to rebuild your index afterward. Depending on
the size of your data that could take a while. \### Transitional With a
transitional approach, you temporarily have two OpenSearch services. Add
a second OpenSearch service with the new version a new name and give it
a new relationship in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`. You can optionally run in
that configuration for a while to allow your application to populate
indexes in the new service as well. Once you\'re ready to switch over,
remove the old OpenSearch service and relationship. You may optionally
have the new OpenSearch service use the old relationship name if that\'s
easier for your app to handle. Your application is now using the new
OpenSearch service. This approach has the benefit of never being without
a working OpenSearch instance. On the downside, it requires two running
OpenSearch servers temporarily, each of which consumes resources and
needs adequate disk space. Depending on the size of your data, that may
be a lot of disk space. #Activity reference Activities log changes to
your project, including when you deploy your app, when you \[push
code\](#push), and when a \[cron job is run\](#cron). To automate your
workflows, you can parse and react to the activity\'s JSON object
through \[activity scripts\](../activity/\_index.md). \## Activity
schema Every activity has a corresponding JSON object containing all
information for that activity, including timestamps, configuration, and
sometimes logs. In practice, you can ignore much of the JSON object\'s
content. The most commonly used values are documented in this reference.
The response differs depending on the activity and doesn\'t always
include all fields. \### Example response The following is a shortened
example of a response for an \[environment sync
activity\](/glossary.md#sync). You can also see \[complete examples of
responses\](#examples). \`\`\` json { \"id\": \"abcdefg123456\", \...
\"created_at\": \"2022-12-16T14:28:17.890467+00:00\", \"updated_at\":
null, \"type\": \"environment.synchronize\", \"parameters\": { \... },
\"project\": \"abcdefgh1234567\", \"environments\": \[ \"feature\" \],
\"state\": \"complete\", \"result\": \"success\", \"started_at\":
\"2022-12-16T14:28:18.188888+00:00\", \"completed_at\":
\"2022-12-16T14:31:48.809068+00:00\", \"completion_percent\": 100,
\"cancelled_at\": null, \"timings\": { \"wait\": 0, \"build\": 0.349,
\"deploy\": 209.986, \"execute\": 210.508 }, \"log\": \"Building
application \'app\' (runtime type: php:8.2, tree: 9851a01)\\n Reusing
existing build for this tree ID\\n\\n\...\\nRedeploying environment
test, as a clone of main\\n \...\\n Closing all services\\n Opening
application app and its relationships\\n Executing deploy hook for
application app\\n \... Environment configuration\\n app (type: php:8.0,
size: S, disk: 2048)\\n\\n \...\", \"payload\": { \... },
\"description\": \"Cloé Weber synchronized test\'s **data** from Main\",
\"text\": \"Cloé Weber synchronized test\'s \*\*data\*\* from Main\",
\"expires_at\": \"2023-12-16T14:28:17.890467+00:00\" } \`\`\` \###
\`id\` A unique \`id\` value to identify the activity itself. \###
\`\*\_at\` \`created_at\`, \`started_at\`, \`updated_at\`,
\`cancelled_at\`, \`completed_at\`, and \`expires_at\` are all
timestamps in UTC. For when a given activity occurred, use
\`completed_at\`. You can use these properties to calculate the duration
of the activity. To calculate the timing for steps in the activity, see
the \[\`timings\` property\](#timings). \### \`parameters\` The
\`parameters\` property includes detailed information about what
triggered the activity, such as the user, the impacted environment, the
git commits, or the cron commands. The response changes based on the
activity. \### \`project\` The ID of the project in which the activity
took place. Use this value to distinguish multiple projects sent the
same URL. Different from \[\`project\` activities\](#type). \###
\`type\` The type of the activity in one of the following categories: -
\[Project\](#project-activity-types) -
\[Environment\](#environment-activity-types) -
\[Integration\](#integration-activity-types) -
\[Maintenance\](#maintenance-activity-types) \#### \`project\` activity
types Activities that happened on a given project. The following table
presents the possible activity types: \| Name \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`project.clear_build_cache\` \| The build cache is cleared. \| \|
\`project.create\` \| A new project is created. \| \|
\`project.domain.create\` \| A new
\[domain\](administration/web/configure-project.md#domains) has been
added to the project. \| \| \`project.domain.delete\` \| An existing
\[domain\](administration/web/configure-project.md#domains) has been
deleted from the project. \| \| \`project.domain.update\` \| An existing
\[domain\](administration/web/configure-project.md#domains) has been
updated from the project. \| \| \`project.metrics.enable\` \| A metric
from the \[continuous profiling\](/increase-observability.md) has been
enabled. \| \| \`project.metrics.update\` \| A metric from the
\[continuous profiling\](/increase-observability.md) has been updated.
\| \| \`project.metrics.disable\` \| A metric from the \[continuous
profiling\](/increase-observability.md) has been disabled. \| \|
\`project.modify.title\` \| The project title has changed. \| \|
\`project.variable.create\` \| A new \[project
variable\](/administration/web/configure-project.md#variables) has been
created. The value is visible only if the variable is not \[set as
sensitive\](../../development/variables/set-variables.md#variable-options).
\| \| \`project.variable.delete\` \| A \[project
variable\](/administration/web/configure-project.md#variables) has been
deleted. \| \| \`project.variable.update\` \| A \[project
variable\](/administration/web/configure-project.md#variables) has been
modified. \| \#### \`environment\` activity types Activities that
happened on an environment. The following table presents the possible
activity types: \| Name \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`environment.activate\` \| The environment has been made
\[active\](/glossary.md#active-environment). \| \|
\`environment.backup\` \| A user triggered a
\[backup\](/environments/backup.md). \| \| \`environment.backup.delete\`
\| A user deleted a \[backup\](/environments/backup.md). \| \|
\`environment.branch\` \| A \[new
branch\](/environments.md#create-environments) has been created via the
CLI, Console, or API. A branch created via Git shows up as
\`environment.push\`. \| \| \`environment.certificate.renewal\` \| An
environment\'s SSL certificate has been
\[renewed\](/define-routes/https.md#certificate-renewals). \| \|
\`environment.cron\` \| A \[cron
job\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#crons) has
completed. \| \| \`environment.deactivate\` \| An environment has been
made \[inactive\](/glossary.md#inactive-environment). \| \|
\`environment.delete\` \| An environment\'s code was deleted through
Git. \| \| \`environment.domain.create\` \| A new
\[domain\](administration/web/configure-project.md#domains) has been
associated with the environment. \| \| \`environment.domain.delete\` \|
A \[domain\](administration/web/configure-project.md#domains) associated
with the environment has been removed. \| \|
\`environment.domain.update\` \| A
\[domain\](administration/web/configure-project.md#domains) associated
with the environment has been updated, such as having its SSL
certificate modified. \| \| \`environment.initialize\` \| The \[default
branch\](/environments.md#default-environment) of the project has just
been initialized with its first commit. \| \| \`environment.merge\` \|
An environment was \[merged\](/glossary.md#merge) through the CLI,
Console, or API. A basic Git merge doesn\'t trigger this activity. \| \|
\`environment.merge-pr\` \| A Pull Request/Merge Request was merged
through the CLI, Console, or API. A basic Git merge doesn\'t trigger
this activity. \| \| \`environment.operation\` \| A \[source
operation\](/create-apps/runtime-operations.md) has been triggered \| \|
\`environment.pause\` \| An environment has been
\[paused\](/environments.md#pause-an-environment). \| \|
\`environment.push\` \| A user
\[pushed\](/administration/cli/reference.md#environmentpush) code to a
branch, either existing or new. \| \| \`environment.redeploy\` \| An
environment was
\[redeployed\](/administration/cli/reference.md#environmentredeploy). \|
\| \`environment.restore\` \| A user restored a
\[backup\](/environments/backup.md). \| \| \`environment.resume\` \| An
inactive environment was
\[resumed\](/environments.md#resume-a-paused-environment) \| \|
\`environment.resources.update\` \| The resources allocated to the
environment \[have been
updated\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.md). \| \|
\`environment.route.create\` \| A new
\[route\](/administration/web/configure-environment.md#routes) has been
created through the API. Edits made using Git to the
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file don\'t trigger this activity. \| \|
\`environment.route.delete\` \| A
\[route\](/administration/web/configure-environment.md#routes) has been
deleted through the API. Edits made using Git to the
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file don\'t trigger this activity. \| \|
\`environment.route.update\` \| A
\[route\](/administration/web/configure-environment.md#routes) has been
modified through the API. Edits made using Git to the
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file don\'t trigger this activity. \| \|
\`environment.source-operation\` \| A \[source
operation\](/create-apps/source-operations.md) has been triggered. \| \|
\`environment.synchronize\` \| An environment has had its data and/or
code replaced with the data and/or code from its parent environment. \|
\| \`environment.update.http_access\` \| \[HTTP access
rules\](/administration/web/configure-environment.md#http-access-control)
for an environment have been modified. \| \|
\`environment.update.restrict_robots\` \| The option to \[hide from
search engines\](../../environments/search-engine-visibility.md) has
been enabled or disabled for an environment. \| \|
\`environment.update.smtp\` \| Email sending has been enabled or
disabled for an environment. \| \| \`environment.variable.create\` \| A
\[new
variable\](/development/variables/set-variables.md#variable-options) has
been created. The value is visible only if the variable is not \[set as
sensitive\](../../development/variables/set-variables.md#variable-options).
\| \| \`environment.variable.delete\` \| A
\[variable\](/development/variables/set-variables.md#variable-options)
has been deleted. \| \| \`environment.variable.update\` \| A
\[variable\](/development/variables/set-variables.md#variable-options)
has been modified. \| \| \`environment_type.access.create\` \| A \[new
access\](/administration/users.md#manage-project-access) has been added
to the environment \| \| \`environment_type.access.delete\` \| An
\[existing access\](/administration/users.md#manage-project-access) to
the environment has been deleted \| \|
\`environment_type.access.update\` \| An \[existing
access\](/administration/users.md#manage-project-access) to the
environment has been updated \| \#### \`integration\` activity types
Activities that relate to an integration. The following table presents
the possible activity types: \| Name \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`integration.bitbucket.fetch\` \| A fetch has been triggered on your
\[Bitbucket Cloud\](/integrations/source/bitbucket.md#bitbucket-cloud)
repository. \| \| \`integration.bitbucket.register_hooks\` \| An
integration hook has been registered with \[Bitbucket
Cloud\](/integrations/source/bitbucket.md#bitbucket-cloud). \| \|
\`integration.bitbucket_server.fetch\` \| A fetch has been triggered on
your \[Bitbucket
Server\](/integrations/source/bitbucket.md#bitbucket-server) repository.
\| \| \`integration.bitbucket_server.register_hooks\` \| An integration
hook has been registered with \[Bitbucket
Server\](/integrations/source/bitbucket.md#bitbucket-server). \| \|
\`integration.github.fetch\` \| A fetch has been triggered on your
\[GitHub\](/integrations/source/github.md) repository. \| \|
\`integration.gitlab.fetch\` \| A fetch has been triggered on your
\[GitLab\](/integrations/source/gitlab.md) repository. \| \|
\`integration.health.email\` \| A \[health
notification\](../notifications.md) was sent by email. \| \|
\`integration.health.pagerduty\` \| A \[health
notification\](../notifications.md) was sent to PagerDuty. \| \|
\`integration.health.slack\` \| A \[health
notification\](../notifications.md) was sent to Slack. \| \|
\`integration.health.webhook\` \| A \[health
notification\](../notifications.md) was sent to a webhook. \| \|
\`integration.script\` \| An \[activity
script\](/integrations/activity/\_index.md) has been triggered. \| \|
\`integration.webhook\` \| A
\[webhook\](/integrations/activity/webhooks.md) was triggered. \| \####
\`maintenance\` activity types Activities that relate to a maintenance.
The following table presents the possible types: \| Name \| Description
\|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`maintenance.upgrade\` \| An upgrade is triggered for API Server and
Metrics Server \| \### \`environments\` An array listing the
environments that were involved in the activity. It\'s usually only a
single value representing one environment. \### \`state\` The current
state of the activity. Its value can be \`pending\`, \`in_progress\`,
\`complete\`, \`cancelled\`, or \`scheduled\`. \###
\`completion_percent\` What percentage of the activity is complete. \###
\`result\` Whether or not the activity completed successfully. If it
did, the value is \`success\`. Note that certain activities, such as
deploy hooks, can be marked as successful activities even if some
commands failed. \### \`timings\` The amount of time required by the
activity. It can include the following properties: \| Name \|
Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`wait\` \| The delay if a command is set to wait before being
executed. \| \| \`build\` \| The execution time for the build hook. \|
\| \`deploy\` \| The execution time for the deploy hook. \| \|
\`execute\` \| The execution time for your script or cron job. \| \###
\`log\` A human-friendly record of what happened in the activity. The
log shouldn\'t be parsed for data as its structure isn\'t guaranteed.
\### \`description\` A short machine-readable description of the
activity. \### \`text\` A short human-readable description of the
activity. \### \`payload\` Contains settings and details related to the
completed activity. Its content varies based on the activity type. \|
Name \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`payload.user\` \| The user that triggered the activity. For details
on its properties, see the \[\`user\` payload\](#user-payload). \| \|
\`payload.environment\` \| The environment affected by the activity. For
details on its properties, see the \[\`environment\`
payload\](#environment-payload). \| \| \`payload.commits\` \| A list of
changes with their Git metadata. \| \| \`payload.commits_count\` \| The
number of Git commits. \| \| \`payload.deployment\` \| Information about
the deployed environment. For details on its properties, see the
\[\`deployment\` payload\](#deployment-payload). \| \|
\`payload.project\` \| Information about the project. For details on its
properties, see the \[\`project\` payload\](#project-payload). \| \####
\`user\` payload Contains information about the Upsun user that
triggered the activity. \| Name \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`payload.user.created_at\` \| The date the user was created. \| \|
\`payload.user.display_name\` \| The user\'s name in a human-friendly
format. \| \| \`payload.user.id\` \| The user\'s ID. \| \|
\`payload.user.updated_at\` \| The date the user was last updated. \|
\#### \`environment\` payload Contains information about the environment
associated with the activity, including its settings, state, and
deployment. The following table presents the most notable properties of
the environment: \| Name \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`payload.environment.name\` \| The environment name. \| \|
\`payload.environment.type\` \| The \[environment
type\](../../administration/users.md#environment-type-roles). \| \|
\`payload.environment.head_commit\` \| The ID of the environment\'s
latest Git commit. \| \| \`payload.environment.edge_hostname\` \| The
URL you should target when setting up a \[custom
domain\](../../domains/steps/\_index.md). \| Different from
\[\`environment\` activities\](#type). \#### \`project\` payload
Contains information about the project associated with the activity,
including plan details, timezone, and region. The following table
presents the most notable properties of the project: \| Name \|
Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`payload.project.timezone\` \| Your project\'s
\[timezone\](../../projects/change-project-timezone.md). \| \|
\`payload.project.region\` \| Your project\'s
\[region\](../../development/regions.md#regions). \| \|
\`payload.project.title\` \| Your project\'s name. \| \|
\`payload.project.subscription\` \| All of the details about your
project\'s \[plan\](../../administration/pricing/\_index.md). \|
Different from \[\`project\` activities\](#type). \#### \`deployment\`
payload Contains information about the deployed environment, if one is
associated with the activity. The following table presents the most
notable properties of the deployment: \| Name \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`payload.deployment.routes\` \| All the URLs connected to the
environment. The list includes redirects. To exclude redirects, find
objects whose \`type\` is \`upstream\`. \| \|
\`payload.deployment.services\` \| All the services on your environment.
\| \| \`payload.deployment.variables\` \| All the \[variables for the
environment\](../../development/variables/\_index.md). \| The
\`payload.deployment\` property includes the configuration extracted
from the following sources: - Your \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md) - Your
\[routes\](../../define-routes/\_index.md) - Your
\[services\](../../add-services/\_index.md) \## Maximum activities and
parallelism Project activities are distributed across separate queues,
which enables \*two\* simultaneous activities to occur in parallel
across your environments. For a given environment, only one activity can
run at a time. Those queues include the following types of activities:
\| Name \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`default\` \| The most common activities on repositories (pushes,
merges) and environments (syncs, redeployments). \| \| \`integrations\`
\| Source and webhook integration activities. \| \| \`backup\` \| Backup
activities. \| \| \`cron\` \| Cron activities. \| Production activities
are prioritized across all queues. When an activity for the production
environment is triggered, it\'s placed at the top of the queue. This
makes it unlikely that activities on preview environments block
activities for the production environment for long, though there may be
a temporary wait. \## Examples The response is often usually long, so
the following examples are shortened using ellipses. Remember that the
response differs depending on the activity and not all fields are always
available. To test responses, \[set up a webhook\](./webhooks.md#setup).
\### Cron When a cron job is triggered, the activity contains all the
\[job\'s
information\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#crons).
The following example response was triggered by a setting where the cron
is scheduled to run every five minutes (\`5 \* \* \* \*\`) with the
command \`sleep 60 && echo sleep-60-finished && date\` and times out
after 86,400 seconds. To get details about the configured cron job, see
the \`parameters\` property: \`\`\` json \... \"parameters\": {
\"user\": \"admin\", \"cluster\": \"abcdefgh1234567-main-abcd123\",
\"environment\": \"main\", \"application\": \"app\", \"cron\":
\"saybye\", \"spec\": { \"spec\": \"5 \* \* \* \*\", \"commands\": {
\"start\": \"sleep 60 && echo sleep-60-finished && date\", \"stop\":
null }, \"shutdown_timeout\": null, \"timeout\": 86400 } \... \`\`\` The
following example shows the full activity response to a cron job: \`\`\`
json { \"id\": \"ypalrypnezbye\", \"\_links\": { \"self\": { \"href\":
\"https://eu-3.upsun.com/api/projects/abcdefgh1234567/activities/ypalrypnezbye\"
}, \"log\": { \"href\":
\"/api/projects/abcdefgh1234567/activities/ypalrypnezbye/log\" } },
\"created_at\": \"2022-12-13T16:06:08.081312+00:00\", \"updated_at\":
null, \"type\": \"environment.cron\", \"parameters\": { \"user\":
\"admin\", \"cluster\": \"abcdefgh1234567-main-abcd123\",
\"environment\": \"main\", \"application\": \"app\", \"cron\":
\"saybye\", \"spec\": { \"spec\": \"5 \* \* \* \*\", \"commands\": {
\"start\": \"sleep 60 && echo sleep-60-finished && date\", \"stop\":
null }, \"shutdown_timeout\": null, \"timeout\": 86400 } }, \"project\":
\"abcdefgh1234567\", \"environments\": \[ \"main\" \], \"state\":
\"complete\", \"result\": \"success\", \"started_at\":
\"2022-12-13T16:06:08.258090+00:00\", \"completed_at\":
\"2022-12-13T16:07:09.658339+00:00\", \"completion_percent\": 100,
\"cancelled_at\": null, \"timings\": { \"wait\": 0, \"execute\": 61.244
}, \"log\": \"hello world\\nTue Dec 13 16:07:09 UTC 2022\", \"payload\":
{ \"user\": { \"id\": \"admin\", \"created_at\":
\"2022-12-13T16:06:08.066085+00:00\", \"updated_at\": null,
\"display_name\": \"Upsun Bot\" }, \"project\": { \"id\":
\"abcdefgh1234567\", \"created_at\":
\"2022-03-22T15:47:28.739099+00:00\", \"updated_at\":
\"2022-12-01T09:42:19.860188+00:00\", \"attributes\": {}, \"title\":
\"php-test\", \"description\": \"\", \"owner\":
\"c9926428-44dc-4b10-be03-a26dd43b44c1\", \"namespace\": \"upsun\",
\"organization\": \"01FF4NBNVMMDWP1NVK0G4EGJW0\", \"default_branch\":
\"main\", \"status\": { \"code\": \"provisioned\", \"message\": \"ok\"
}, \"timezone\": \"Europe/Dublin\", \"region\": \"eu-3.upsun.com\",
\"repository\": { \"url\":
\"abcdefgh1234567@git.eu-3.upsun.com:abcdefgh1234567.git\",
\"client_ssh_key\": \"ssh-rsa aaaaaaabbbbbbbcccccccddddddd
abcdefgh1234567@upsun\" }, \"default_domain\": null, \"subscription\": {
\"license_uri\": \"https://accounts.upsun.com/api/v1/licenses/2291467\",
\"plan\": \"development\", \"environments\": 3, \"storage\": 5120,
\"included_users\": 1, \"subscription_management_uri\":
\"https://console.upsun.com-/users/abcd12345/billing/plan/12345678\",
\"restricted\": false, \"suspended\": false, \"user_licenses\": 1 } },
\"environment\": { \"id\": \"main\", \"created_at\":
\"2022-03-22T15:47:43.750880+00:00\", \"updated_at\":
\"2022-11-29T16:16:37.085719+00:00\", \"name\": \"main\",
\"machine_name\": \"main-abcd123\", \"title\": \"Main\", \"attributes\":
{}, \"type\": \"production\", \"parent\": null, \"default_domain\":
null, \"clone_parent_on_create\": true, \"deployment_target\":
\"local\", \"is_pr\": false, \"status\": \"active\", \"enable_smtp\":
true, \"restrict_robots\": true, \"edge_hostname\":
\"main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site\",
\"deployment_state\": { \"last_deployment_successful\": true,
\"last_deployment_at\": \"2022-11-29T16:16:37.085609+00:00\", \"crons\":
{ \"enabled\": true, \"status\": \"running\" } },
\"resources_overrides\": {}, \"last_active_at\":
\"2022-12-13T15:07:10.862854+00:00\", \"last_backup_at\": null,
\"project\": \"abcdefgh1234567\", \"is_main\": true, \"is_dirty\":
false, \"has_code\": true, \"head_commit\":
\"6aac318907b50252976c47e4e62ed95d438af0ea\", \"merge_info\": {
\"commits_ahead\": 0, \"commits_behind\": 0, \"parent_ref\": null },
\"has_deployment\": true }, \"cron\": \"saybye\" }, \"description\":
\"Upsun Bot ran cron **saybye**\", \"text\": \"Upsun Bot ran cron
\*\*saybye\*\*\", \"expires_at\": \"2023-01-12T16:06:08.081293+00:00\" }
\`\`\` \### Push A push activity contains several properties. The
\`commits\` property contains everything related to the Git push that
triggered the activity: \`\`\` json \... \"commits\": \[ { \"sha\":
\"2bab04e050279ac078d5d34016f5dd9c466e948d\", \"author\": { \"email\":
\"cloeweber@example.com\", \"name\": \"Cloé Weber\", \"date\":
1671032461 }, \"parents\": \[
\"6aac318907b50252976c47e4e62ed95d438af0ea\" \], \"message\": \"Add
cron\" } \], \... \`\`\` The \`environment\` property contains the
settings for the environment that was pushed to: \`\`\` json \...
\"environment\": { \"id\": \"main\", \"created_at\":
\"2022-03-22T15:47:43.750880+00:00\", \"updated_at\":
\"2022-11-29T16:16:37.085719+00:00\", \"name\": \"main\",
\"machine_name\": \"main-abcd123\", \"title\": \"Main\", \"attributes\":
{}, \"type\": \"production\", \"parent\": null, \"default_domain\":
null, \"clone_parent_on_create\": true, \"deployment_target\":
\"local\", \"is_pr\": false, \"status\": \"active\", \"enable_smtp\":
true, \"restrict_robots\": true, \"edge_hostname\":
\"main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site\",
\"deployment_state\": { \"last_deployment_successful\": true,
\"last_deployment_at\": \"2022-11-29T16:16:37.085609+00:00\", \"crons\":
{ \"enabled\": true, \"status\": \"sleeping\" } },
\"resources_overrides\": {}, \"last_active_at\":
\"2022-12-13T16:07:09.788910+00:00\", \"last_backup_at\": null,
\"project\": \"abcdefgh1234567\", \"is_main\": true, \"is_dirty\":
false, \"has_code\": true, \"head_commit\":
\"6aac318907b50252976c47e4e62ed95d438af0ea\", \"merge_info\": {
\"commits_ahead\": 0, \"commits_behind\": 0, \"parent_ref\": null },
\"has_deployment\": true }, \... \`\`\` The \`deployment\` property
contains the settings for the deployment, including the \[image
type\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#types) and
\[resource allocation\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources). The
following example shows a shortened excerpt of the \`deployment\`
property: \`\`\` json \... \"deployment\": { \"id\": \"current\",
\"created_at\": \"2022-03-22T15:48:05.396979+00:00\", \"updated_at\":
\"2022-12-14T15:41:57.264813+00:00\", \"cluster_name\":
\"abcdefgh1234567-main-abcd123\", \"project_info\": { \"deployment\": {
\"id\": \"current\", \"created_at\":
\"2022-03-22T15:48:05.396979+00:00\", \"updated_at\":
\"2022-12-14T15:41:57.264813+00:00\", \"cluster_name\":
\"abcdefgh1234567-main-abcd123\", \"project_info\": { \"name\":
\"abcdefgh1234567\", \"settings\": { \"initialize\": { \"values\": {
\"initialize\": true, \"start\": false, \"base\": { \"files\": \[\],
\"profile\": \"PHP\", \"config\": null, \"repository\":
\"https://github.com/platformsh-templates/php.git@master\", \"title\":
\"PHP\" } } }, \... \"application_config_file\": \".upsun/config.yaml\",
\"project_config_dir\": \".upsun\", \... \"development_service_size\":
\"S\", \"development_application_size\": \"S\",
\"enable_certificate_provisioning\": true, \"certificate_style\":
\"ecdsa\", \"certificate_renewal_activity\": true, \...
\"cron_minimum_interval\": 5, \"cron_maximum_jitter\": 20,
\"concurrency_limits\": { \"internal\": null, \"integration\": 4,
\"backup\": 2, \"cron\": 10, \"default\": 2 }, \... \"build_resources\":
{ \"cpu\": 1, \"memory\": 2048 }, \... \"max_allowed_routes\": 50000,
\"max_allowed_redirects_paths\": 50000, \"enable_incremental_backups\":
true, \... } }, \... \`\`\` The following example shows the full
activity response to a Git push: \`\`\` json { \"id\":
\"a1kz6ffxui7em\", \"\_links\": { \"self\": { \"href\":
\"https://eu-3.upsun.com/api/projects/abcdefgh1234567/activities/a1kz6ffxui7em\"
}, \"log\": { \"href\":
\"/api/projects/abcdefgh1234567/activities/a1kz6ffxui7em/log\" } },
\"created_at\": \"2022-12-14T15:41:05.821145+00:00\", \"updated_at\":
null, \"type\": \"environment.push\", \"parameters\": { \"user\":
\"c9926428-44dc-4b10-be03-a26dd43b44c1\", \"environment\": \"main\",
\"old_commit\": \"6aac318907b50252976c47e4e62ed95d438af0ea\",
\"new_commit\": \"2bab04e050279ac078d5d34016f5dd9c466e948d\" },
\"project\": \"abcdefgh1234567\", \"environments\": \[ \"main\" \],
\"state\": \"complete\", \"result\": \"success\", \"started_at\":
\"2022-12-14T15:41:05.969872+00:00\", \"completed_at\":
\"2022-12-14T15:41:57.635442+00:00\", \"completion_percent\": 100,
\"cancelled_at\": null, \"timings\": { \"wait\": 0, \"parse_commits\":
0.63, \"build\": 0.506, \"deploy\": 49.954, \"execute\": 51.516 },
\"log\": \"Found 1 new commit\\n\\nBuilding application \'myapp\'
(runtime type: php:8.0, tree: 9851a01)\\n Reusing existing build for
this tree ID\\n\\nProvisioning certificates\\n Certificates\\n -
certificate 5093946: expiring on 2023-02-23 11:09:20+00:00, covering
{,www}.main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site\\n\\n\\nRedeploying
environment main\\n Preparing deployment\\n Closing service myapp\\n
Opening application myapp and its relationships\\n Executing deploy hook
for application myapp\\n hello world\\n\\n Opening environment\\n
Environment configuration\\n myapp (type: php:8.0, size: S, disk:
2048)\\n\\n Environment routes\\n
http://main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/ redirects to
https://main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\\n
http://www.main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/ redirects
to https://www.main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\\n
https://main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/ is served by
application \`myapp\`\\n
https://www.main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/ redirects
to https://main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\\n\",
\"payload\": { \"user\": { \"id\":
\"c9926428-44dc-4b10-be03-a26dd43b44c1\", \"created_at\":
\"2022-12-14T15:40:16.891889+00:00\", \"updated_at\": null,
\"display_name\": \"Cloé Weber\" }, \"environment\": { \"id\": \"main\",
\"created_at\": \"2022-03-22T15:47:43.750880+00:00\", \"updated_at\":
\"2022-11-29T16:16:37.085719+00:00\", \"name\": \"main\",
\"machine_name\": \"main-abcd123\", \"title\": \"Main\", \"attributes\":
{}, \"type\": \"production\", \"parent\": null, \"default_domain\":
null, \"clone_parent_on_create\": true, \"deployment_target\":
\"local\", \"is_pr\": false, \"status\": \"active\", \"enable_smtp\":
true, \"restrict_robots\": true, \"edge_hostname\":
\"main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site\",
\"deployment_state\": { \"last_deployment_successful\": true,
\"last_deployment_at\": \"2022-11-29T16:16:37.085609+00:00\", \"crons\":
{ \"enabled\": true, \"status\": \"sleeping\" } },
\"resources_overrides\": {}, \"last_active_at\":
\"2022-12-13T16:07:09.788910+00:00\", \"last_backup_at\": null,
\"project\": \"abcdefgh1234567\", \"is_main\": true, \"is_dirty\":
false, \"has_code\": true, \"head_commit\":
\"6aac318907b50252976c47e4e62ed95d438af0ea\", \"merge_info\": {
\"commits_ahead\": 0, \"commits_behind\": 0, \"parent_ref\": null },
\"has_deployment\": true }, \"commits\": \[ { \"sha\":
\"2bab04e050279ac078d5d34016f5dd9c466e948d\", \"author\": { \"email\":
\"cloeweber@example.com\", \"name\": \"Cloé Weber\", \"date\":
1671032461 }, \"parents\": \[
\"6aac318907b50252976c47e4e62ed95d438af0ea\" \], \"message\": \"Add
cron\" } \], \"commits_count\": 1, \"deployment\": { \"id\":
\"current\", \"created_at\": \"2022-03-22T15:48:05.396979+00:00\",
\"updated_at\": \"2022-12-14T15:41:57.264813+00:00\", \"cluster_name\":
\"abcdefgh1234567-main-abcd123\", \"project_info\": { \"name\":
\"abcdefgh1234567\", \"settings\": { \"initialize\": { \"values\": {
\"initialize\": true, \"start\": false, \"base\": { \"files\": \[\],
\"profile\": \"PHP\", \"config\": null, \"repository\":
\"https://github.com/platformsh-templates/php.git@master\", \"title\":
\"PHP\" } } }, \"product_name\": \"Upsun\", \"product_code\": \"upsun\",
\"variables_prefix\": \"PLATFORM\_\", \"bot_email\": \"bot@upsun.com\",
\"application_config_file\": \".upsun/config.yaml\",
\"project_config_dir\": \".upsun\", \"use_drupal_defaults\": false,
\"use_legacy_subdomains\": false, \"development_service_size\": \"S\",
\"development_application_size\": \"S\",
\"enable_certificate_provisioning\": true, \"certificate_style\":
\"ecdsa\", \"certificate_renewal_activity\": true,
\"development_domain_template\": null, \"enable_state_api_deployments\":
true, \"temporary_disk_size\": null, \"cron_minimum_interval\": 5,
\"cron_maximum_jitter\": 20, \"concurrency_limits\": { \"internal\":
null, \"integration\": 4, \"backup\": 2, \"cron\": 10, \"default\": 2 },
\"flexible_build_cache\": false, \"strict_configuration\": true,
\"has_sleepy_crons\": true, \"crons_in_git\": true,
\"custom_error_template\": null, \"app_error_page_template\": null,
\"environment_name_strategy\": \"name-and-hash\", \"data_retention\":
null, \"enable_codesource_integration_push\": true, \"enforce_mfa\":
false, \"systemd\": true, \"router_gen2\": false, \"chorus\": {
\"enabled\": true, \"exposed\": true }, \"build_resources\": { \"cpu\":
1, \"memory\": 2048 }, \"outbound_restrictions_default_policy\":
\"allow\", \"self_upgrade\": true, \"additional_hosts\": {},
\"max_allowed_routes\": 50000, \"max_allowed_redirects_paths\": 50000,
\"enable_incremental_backups\": true, \"sizing_api_enabled\": false,
\"enable_cache_grace_period\": true,
\"enable_zero_downtime_deployments\": false, \"enable_admin_agent\":
true, \"certifier_url\": \"https://proxy.upsun.com/\",
\"centralized_permissions\": false, \"glue_server_max_request_size\": 10
} }, \"environment_info\": { \"name\": \"main\", \"is_main\": true,
\"is_production\": false, \"reference\": \"refs/heads/main\",
\"machine_name\": \"main-abcd123\", \"environment_type\": \"production\"
}, \"deployment_target\": \"local\", \"vpn\": null, \"http_access\": {
\"is_enabled\": true, \"addresses\": \[\], \"basic_auth\": {} },
\"enable_smtp\": true, \"restrict_robots\": true, \"variables\": \[ {
\"name\": \"php:memory_limit\", \"value\": \"512M\", \"is_sensitive\":
false } \], \"access\": \[ { \"entity_id\":
\"c9926428-44dc-4b10-be03-a26dd43b44c1\", \"role\": \"admin\" } \],
\"subscription\": { \"license_uri\":
\"https://accounts.upsun.com/api/v1/licenses/12345678\", \"plan\":
\"development\", \"environments\": 3, \"storage\": 5120,
\"included_users\": 1, \"subscription_management_uri\":
\"https://console.upsun.com//-/users/abcd12345/billing/plan/12345678\",
\"restricted\": false, \"suspended\": false, \"user_licenses\": 1 },
\"services\": {}, \"routes\": {
\"https://main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\": {
\"primary\": true, \"id\": null, \"production_url\":
\"https://main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\",
\"attributes\": {}, \"type\": \"upstream\", \"tls\": {
\"strict_transport_security\": { \"enabled\": null,
\"include_subdomains\": null, \"preload\": null }, \"min_version\":
null, \"client_authentication\": null,
\"client_certificate_authorities\": \[\] }, \"original_url\":
\"https://{default}/\", \"restrict_robots\": true, \"cache\": {
\"enabled\": true, \"default_ttl\": 0, \"cookies\": \[ \"\*\" \],
\"headers\": \[ \"Accept\", \"Accept-Language\" \] }, \"ssi\": {
\"enabled\": false }, \"upstream\": \"myapp:http\", \"redirects\": {
\"expires\": \"-1s\", \"paths\": {} } },
\"https://www.main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\": {
\"primary\": false, \"id\": null, \"production_url\":
\"https://www.main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\",
\"attributes\": {}, \"type\": \"redirect\", \"tls\": {
\"strict_transport_security\": { \"enabled\": null,
\"include_subdomains\": null, \"preload\": null }, \"min_version\":
null, \"client_authentication\": null,
\"client_certificate_authorities\": \[\] }, \"original_url\":
\"https://www.{default}/\", \"restrict_robots\": true, \"to\":
\"https://main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\",
\"redirects\": { \"expires\": \"-1s\", \"paths\": {} } },
\"http://main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\": {
\"primary\": false, \"id\": null, \"production_url\":
\"http://main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\",
\"attributes\": {}, \"type\": \"redirect\", \"tls\": {
\"strict_transport_security\": { \"enabled\": null,
\"include_subdomains\": null, \"preload\": null }, \"min_version\":
null, \"client_authentication\": null,
\"client_certificate_authorities\": \[\] }, \"original_url\":
\"http://{default}/\", \"restrict_robots\": true, \"to\":
\"https://main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\",
\"redirects\": { \"expires\": \"-1s\", \"paths\": {} } },
\"http://www.main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\": {
\"primary\": false, \"id\": null, \"production_url\":
\"http://www.main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\",
\"attributes\": {}, \"type\": \"redirect\", \"tls\": {
\"strict_transport_security\": { \"enabled\": null,
\"include_subdomains\": null, \"preload\": null }, \"min_version\":
null, \"client_authentication\": null,
\"client_certificate_authorities\": \[\] }, \"original_url\":
\"http://www.{default}/\", \"restrict_robots\": true, \"to\":
\"https://www.main-abcd123-abcdefgh1234567.eu-3.platformsh.site/\",
\"redirects\": { \"expires\": \"-1s\", \"paths\": {} } } }, \"webapps\":
{ \"app\": { \"resources\": null, \"size\": \"AUTO\", \"disk\": 2048,
\"access\": { \"ssh\": \"contributor\" }, \"relationships\": {},
\"additional_hosts\": {}, \"mounts\": { \"/web/uploads\": { \"source\":
\"local\", \"source_path\": \"uploads\" }, \"/private\": { \"source\":
\"local\", \"source_path\": \"private\" } }, \"timezone\": null,
\"variables\": {}, \"firewall\": null, \"initial_size\": null,
\"container_profile\": null, \"instance_count\": null, \"name\":
\"app\", \"type\": \"php:8.0\", \"runtime\": {}, \"preflight\": {
\"enabled\": true, \"ignored_rules\": \[\] }, \"tree_id\":
\"9851a01081f3c2f943f75f62c38b67f8bc0ec15c\", \"slug_id\":
\"abcdefgh1234567-app-9851a01081f3c2f943f75f62c38b67f8bc0ec15c-73985064e66fd2299f4b83931cff46891249a964\",
\"app_dir\": \"/app\", \"web\": { \"locations\": { \"/\": { \"root\":
\"web\", \"expires\": \"-1s\", \"passthru\": \"/index.php\",
\"scripts\": true, \"allow\": true, \"headers\": {}, \"rules\": {} } },
\"move_to_root\": false }, \"hooks\": { \"build\": \"set -e\\n\",
\"deploy\": \"set -e\\n\", \"post_deploy\": null }, \"crons\": {
\"saybye\": { \"spec\": \"5 \* \* \* \*\", \"commands\": { \"start\":
\"sleep 60 && echo sleep-60-finished && date\", \"stop\": null },
\"shutdown_timeout\": null, \"timeout\": 86400 } } } }, \"workers\": {},
} } }, \"description\": \"Cloé Weber pushed to Main\", \"text\": \"Cloé
Weber pushed to Main\", \"expires_at\":
\"2023-12-14T15:41:05.821145+00:00\" } \`\`\` #Back up an environment
When you\'re making changes to your apps, you want to be sure those
changes only improve things and don\'t make you lose any data. You also
want to have a disaster recovery plan in place. Backups help you protect
yourself against potential data loss. You might want to create backups
of your live environment before merging a different environment into it
or each time you increase the storage space of your services. You also
have regularly scheduled automated backups of your production
environments to cover most cases. Note that you can only create backups
and restore active environments. To work with an \[inactive
environment\](/glossary.md#inactive-environment), first activate it. \##
How backup and restore works 1. As an \[admin
user\](../administration/users.md), you can do a backup of your
environment. This backup includes the complete data and code of the
environment. All persistent data from all running
\[services\](../add-services/\_index.md) and any files stored on
\[mounts\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts)
are included. The backup is stored internally on Upsun. That is, the
backup can be applied to environments on Upsun, but it can\'t be
downloaded. If you need to download backups, instead \[export your mount
and service data\](/learn/tutorials/exporting.md)). 2. You restore your
environment using the backup. At this point, the data and code from the
backup are restored to ensure a consistent state. The latest code in
your repository may have been modified such that it no longer works
correctly with the old, restored data.

### Warning

Upsun does not modify your Git repository. Any further changes you make
use the latest code in your repository.

3\. Depending on your needs, you can do the following: a) To use the
code from the time of the backup as a baseline for future changes, make
sure you restore it yourself in your Git repository. To do so, use Git
commands such as \`revert\`. b) To use your latest code instead, just
redeploy your environment or push a new change.

### Note

You may not want the code from the backup to be restored at step 2. For
instance, if you have deleted containers since the backup, you may not
want them to be restored with the backup.

In this case, you can opt out of restoring the code. To do so, when you
restore your backup, use the `--no-code` flag.

Also, see [how resource allocation
works](/manage-resources/resource-init.html#backup-restoration) when you
restore a backup.

\## Backups and downtime By default, creating a manual backup causes a
momentary pause in site availability so that all requests can complete.
This means the environment is backed up in a known consistent state. The
total interruption is usually only 15 to 30 seconds. Any requests during
that time are held temporarily, not dropped. To avoid this downtime, use
\[live backups\](#live-backups). For consistent backups, create the
backups during non-peak hours for your site. \## Data retention \###
Manual backups \[Manual
backups\](../environments/backup.md#create-a-manual-backup) are retained
until you delete them or replace them with another backup. You can
configure the maximum number of manual backups. Once that number is
reached, any new manual backup automatically replaces the oldest backup.
\### Automated backups Automated backups are retained for 2 days when
you use the \[default backup policy\](#default-backup-policy) (meaning,
2 days worth of backups are retained at any given point). When you
\[configure your own automated backup
policy\](#configure-a-backup-policy), the retention time varies based on
that configuration. Automated backups are always
\[live\](#live-backups). \## Backup policy \### Default backup policy By
default, Upsun provides 1 automated backup a day for your production
environment, with a \[2-day retention\](/security/data-retention.md) (2
days worth of backups are retained at any given point). You can
\[configure your own backup policy\](#configure-a-backup-policy). The
default backup policy is equivalent to a custom backup policy using a
\`1d\` interval and a count of \`2\` (see below). \### Configure a
backup policy Upsun allows you to fully configure your own backup
policy. You can setup a different automated backup schedule per
environment type (production, staging, and development environments). On
a given environment type, you can configure: - The total number of
backups (manual and automated) - The total number of manual backups
specifically - Multiple schedules for automated backups An automated
backup schedule is composed of an interval and a count. The interval
defines the frequency of the backups. An interval can be a couple of
hours, days, weeks, months, or years. To configure an interval, use the
following values: - \`\`h\`\` for hour - \`\`d\`\` for day - \`\`w\`\`
for week - \`\`M\`\` for month - \`\`y\`\` for year The count defines
the number of backups to retain. \### Configuration examples To take a
backup every day and keep up to 7 backups, run the following command:
\`\`\`bash {} upsun project:curl settings -X PATCH \\ -d \'{
\"data_retention\": { \"production\": { \"default_config\": {
\"schedule\": \[ {\"interval\": \"1d\", \"count\": 7}, \] } } } }\'
\`\`\` \#### Configure multiple automated backup schedules You can use
multiple schedules to implement you own backup policy. For instance, you
may want to keep multiple recent backups and fewer older backups, using
a command similar to the following: \`\`\`bash {} upsun project:curl
settings -X PATCH \\ -d \'{ \"data_retention\": { \"production\": {
\"default_config\": { \"schedule\": \[ {\"interval\": \"1d\", \"count\":
7}, {\"interval\": \"1w\", \"count\": 4}, {\"interval\": \"1M\",
\"count\": 12} \] } } } }\' \`\`\` The command results in: - A backup
every day for 7 days - A backup every week for 4 weeks - A backup every
month for 12 months \#### Set a limit for backups To configure the
maximum number of backups (automated and manual backups alike) on your
production environment, run a command similar to the following:
\`\`\`bash {} upsun project:curl /settings -X PATCH -d
\'{\"data_retention\": {\"production\": {\"max_backups\": 10}}}\' \`\`\`
To configure the maximum number of manual backups on the production
environment, run a command similar to the following: \`\`\`bash {} upsun
project:curl /settings -X PATCH -d \'{\"data_retention\":
{\"production\": {\"default_config\": {\"manual_count\": 1}}}}\' \`\`\`
\## Live backups You can create backups without any downtime. This means
your environment is running and open to connections during the backup.
Because the connections may come in during backup creation, live backups
may have data inconsistencies among containers. They may make
restorations less reliable. To avoid such issues, schedule \[manual
backups\](#create-a-manual-backup) during non-peak hours, when the short
amount of downtime is least noticed. You can create a manual live backup
on a Grid project:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Use the `--live` flag:

`upsun backup:create --live`When [creating the
backup](#create-a-manual-backup), select **Run live backup** in the last
step. \## Create a manual backup You can create a manual backup using
the \[CLI\](../administration/cli/\_index.md) or in the
\[Console\](../administration/web/\_index.md).

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

`upsun backup:create `

1.  Navigate to the environment you want to back up.
2.  Click **Backups**.
3.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Backup**.
4.  Click **Backup**.

See more information on \[backup policies\](#backup-policy) and \[data
retention\](#data-retention). \### Automate manual backups You can also
automate the process of creating manual backups through \[cron
jobs\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#crons). The
cron job uses the CLI command to back up the environment. It requires
you to \[set up the CLI on the environment with an API
token\](../administration/cli/api-tokens.md#authenticate-in-an-environment).
Although this process is automated, backups created in this way count as
\[manual backups\](#manual-backups). They don\'t affect the automated
backups taken as part of \[a schedule\](#configure-a-backup-policy). \##
Physical storage location Backups are stored as binary large objects
separate from your environments. This storage is replicated over
multiple data centers in different locations \[within the region your
project is hosted
in\](https://platform.sh/trust-center/security/data-security/). This
means that in the rare event a data center becomes unavailable, your
backups are still available. #External Integrations Upsun can be
integrated with external services. Upsun supports native integrations
with multiple services, first and foremost Git hosting services such as
GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket. You can continue to use those tools for
your development workflow, and have Upsun environments created
automatically for your pull requests and branches. \## List active
integrations With the CLI, you can list all your active integrations
using the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun integrations \`\`\` You
get output similar to the following: \`\`\`bash
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| ID \| Type \| Summary \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| abcdefghijklm \| github \| Repository: platformsh/platformsh-docs \|
\| \| \| Hook URL: \| \| \| \|
https://eu-3.platform.sh/api/projects/123abcdefgh3i/integrations/abcdefghijklm/hook
\|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\`\`\` \## Validate integrations Once your integration has been
configured, you can check that it\'s working as expected. To do so,
follow these steps: 1. Run the \`upsun integration:validate\` command.
2. When prompted, select the integration you want to validate:
\`\`\`bash Enter a number to choose an integration: \[0\] 5aut2djgt6kdd
(health.slack) \[1\] a6535j9qp4sl8 (github) \> 1 \`\`\` You get output
similar to: \`\`\`bash Validating the integration a6535j9qp4sl8 (type:
github)\... The integration is valid. \`\`\` \## Debug integrations When
integrations run, they trigger \"activities.\" Activities are actions
that happen on Upsun, and they get logged. Usually these are triggered
nearly instantaneously on the webhook endpoint. These activities may be
delayed due to the external services having latency. Those logs are
available via the CLI. In most cases they aren\'t necessary but may be
useful for debugging an integration if it is misbehaving for some
reason. There are a handful of CLI commands available, all under the
\`integrations\` section. \### List all activities To list all the
updates triggered by
\[activities\](../integrations/activity/reference.md) on a given project
and integration, follow these steps: 1. Run the \`upsun
integration:activities\` command. 2. When prompted, select an
integration. \`\`\`bash Enter a number to choose an integration: \[0\]
dxr45hfldrkoe (webhook) \[1\] n2ukd4p7qofg4 (health.email) \[2\]
c4opi5tjv3yfd (github) \> 2 \`\`\` You get output similar to the
following: \`\`\`bash Activities on the project Upsun \| Docs
(6b2eocegfkwwg), integration c4opi5tjv3yfd (github):
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| ID \| Created \| Description \| State \| Result \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| 6456zmdtoykxa \| 2020-04-14T16:38:09-05:00 \| Fetching from
https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs \| complete \| success \|
\| wcwp34yjvydgk \| 2020-04-14T16:35:22-05:00 \| Fetching from
https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs \| complete \| success \|
\| w2bp3oa5xbfoe \| 2020-04-14T16:33:13-05:00 \| Fetching from
https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs \| complete \| success \|
\| uqqvdyxmcdmsa \| 2020-04-14T16:31:45-05:00 \| Fetching from
https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs \| complete \| success \|
\| 7x3wefhh4fwqc \| 2020-04-14T16:30:36-05:00 \| Fetching from
https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs \| complete \| success \|
\| a46aah3ga65gc \| 2020-04-14T16:29:46-05:00 \| Fetching from
https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs \| complete \| success \|
\| r7erid2jlixgi \| 2020-04-14T16:24:50-05:00 \| Fetching from
https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs \| complete \| success \|
\| ieufk3vvde5oc \| 2020-04-14T16:24:49-05:00 \| Fetching from
https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs \| complete \| success \|
\| bc7ghg36ty4ea \| 2020-04-14T15:30:17-05:00 \| Fetching from
https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs \| complete \| success \|
\| 4qojtv7a6rk2w \| 2020-04-14T15:27:26-05:00 \| Fetching from
https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs \| complete \| success \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\`\`\` You may also specify an integration to display in the command
line directly: \`upsun integration:activities c4opi5tjv3yfd\`. The ID is
an internal identifier for the activity event. The Description field is
an arbitrary string of text produced by the integration code. The State
and Result fields indicate if the activity completed successfully,
failed for some reason, or is currently in progress. See the \`\--help\`
output of the command for more options. \### Show detailed information
on an activity To show detailed information on a specific activity, run
the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun integration:activity:log
INTEGRATION_ID ACTIVITY_ID -t \`\`\` The \`-t\` option specifies that
timestamps must be included in the display of the results. You get
output similar to the following: \`\`\`bash Integration ID:
ceopz5tgj3yfc Activity ID: 6456zmdtoykxa Type: integration.github.fetch
Description: Fetching from https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs
Created: 2020-04-15T08:44:07-05:00 State: complete Log:
\[2020-04-15T13:44:17-05:00\] Waiting for other activities to complete
\[2020-04-15T13:46:07-05:00\] Fetching from GitHub repository
platformsh/platformsh-docs \[2020-04-15T13:46:09-05:00\] No changes
since last fetch \[2020-04-15T13:46:09-05:00\]
\[2020-04-15T13:46:09-05:00\] Synchronizing branches
\[2020-04-15T13:46:09-05:00\] \[2020-04-15T13:46:09-05:00\]
Synchronizing pull requests \[2020-04-15T13:46:59-05:00\]
\[2020-04-15T13:46:59-05:00\] W: No changes found, scheduling a retry..
\`\`\` That shows the full output of the activity, including timestamps.
That can be especially helpful if trying to determine why an integration
isn\'t behaving as expected. See the \`\--help\` output of the command
for more options. If you omit the activity ID (the second random-seeming
string), the command will default to the most recent activity recorded.
#PostgreSQL (Database service) PostgreSQL is a high-performance,
standards-compliant relational SQL database. See the \[PostgreSQL
documentation\](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.6/index.html) for more
information. \## Supported versions You can select the major version.
But the latest compatible minor version is applied automatically and
can't be overridden. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug
fixes and the like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest
available patches.

-   16
-   15
-   14
-   13
-   12

### Note

You can't upgrade to PostgreSQL 12 with the `postgis` extension enabled.
For more details, see how to [upgrade to PostgreSQL 12 with
`postgis`](#upgrade-to-postgresql-12-with-the-postgis-extension).

\### Deprecated versions The following versions are
\[deprecated\](/glossary.html#deprecated-versions). They\'re available,
but they aren\'t receiving security updates from upstream and aren\'t
guaranteed to work. They\'ll be removed in the future, so migrate to one
of the \[supported versions\](#supported-versions).

-   11
-   10
-   9.6
-   9.5
-   9.4
-   9.3

\## Relationship reference For each service \[defined via a
relationship\](#usage-example) to your application, Upsun automatically
generates corresponding environment variables within your application
container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format. Here is example information
available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`POSTGRESQL_USERNAME=main POSTGRESQL_SCHEME=pgsql POSTGRESQL_SERVICE=postgresql POSTGRESQL_FRAGMENT= POSTGRESQL_IP=123.456.78.90 POSTGRESQL_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.postgresql.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site POSTGRESQL_PORT=5432 POSTGRESQL_CLUSTER=azertyuiopqsdf-main-afdwftq POSTGRESQL_EPOCH=0 POSTGRESQL_HOST=postgresql.internal POSTGRESQL_REL=postgresql POSTGRESQL_PATH=main POSTGRESQL_QUERY={'is_master': True} POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD=ChangeMe POSTGRESQL_TYPE=postgresql:16 POSTGRESQL_PUBLIC=false POSTGRESQL_HOST_MAPPED=false`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "username": "main", "scheme": "pgsql", "service": "postgresql", "fragment": null, "ip": "123.456.78.90", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.postgresql.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "port": 5432, "cluster": "azertyuiopqsdf-main-afdwftq", "host": "postgresql.internal", "rel": "postgresql", "path": "main", "query": { "is_master": true }, "password": "ChangeMe", "type": "postgresql:16", "public": false, "host_mapped": false }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_POSTGRESQL_HOST="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.postgresql[0].host')"`
\## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`\`postgresql\`\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of
the service container. Must be unique within a project. : type:
postgresql: \`\`\` Note that changing the name of the service replaces
it with a brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back up your
data before changing the service. \### 2. Define the relationship To
define the relationship, use the following configuration:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the *name* of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container (`<APP_NAME>`) now
has access to the service via the relationship `<SERVICE_NAME>` and its
corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: postgresql`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

For PHP, enable the \[extension\](/languages/php/extensions) for the
service:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - pdo_pgsql # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - pdo_pgsql # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: postgresql`
\### Example configuration

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - pdo_pgsql # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: postgresql: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. postgresql: type: postgresql:16`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - pdo_pgsql # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: postgresql: service: postgresql endpoint: postgresql services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. postgresql: type: postgresql:16`
\### Use in app To use the configured service in your app, add a
configuration file similar to the following to your project.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - pdo_pgsql [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: postgresql: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. postgresql: type: postgresql:16`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - pdo_pgsql [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: postgresql: service: postgresql endpoint: postgresql services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. postgresql: type: postgresql:16`
This configuration defines a single application (\`myapp\`), whose
source code exists in the \`/myapp\` directory. \`myapp\` has access to
the \`postgresql\` service, via a relationship whose name is \[identical
to the service name\](#2-define-the-relationship) (as per \[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships). From this, \`\`myapp\`\` can retrieve
access credentials to the service through the \[relationship environment
variables\](#relationship-reference). \`\`\`bash {} \# Set environment
variables for individual credentials. \# For more information, please
visit
https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables.
export DB_CONNECTION=\"\${POSTGRESQL_SCHEME}\" export
DB_USERNAME=\"\${POSTGRESQL_USERNAME}\" export
DB_PASSWORD=\"\${POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD}\" export
DB_HOST=\"\${POSTGRESQL_HOST}\" export DB_PORT=\"\${POSTGRESQL_PORT}\"
export DB_DATABASE=\"\${POSTGRESQL_PATH}\" \# Surface connection string
variable for use in app. export
DATABASE_URL=\"\${DB_CONNECTION}://\${DB_USERNAME}:\${DB_PASSWORD}@\${DB_HOST}:\${DB_PORT}/\${DB_DATABASE}\"
\`\`\` The above file --- \`\`.environment\`\` in the \`\`myapp\`\`
directory --- is automatically sourced by Upsun into the runtime
environment, so that the variable \`\`DATABASE_URL\`\` can be used
within the application to connect to the service. Note that
\`\`DATABASE_URL\`\`, and all Upsun \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
like \`\`POSTGRESQL_HOST\`\`, are environment-dependent. Unlike the
build produced for a given commit, they can't be reused across
environments and only allow your app to connect to a single service
instance on a single environment. A file very similar to this is
generated automatically for your when using the \`\`upsun ify\`\`
command to \[migrate a codebase to Upsun\](/get-started/\_index.md). \##
Access the service directly Access the service using the Upsun CLI by
running \`upsun sql\`. You can also access it from your app container
via \[SSH\](../development/ssh/\_index.md). From your \[relationship
data\](#relationship-reference), you need: \`POSTGRESQL_USERNAME\`,
\`POSTGRESQL_HOST\`, and \`POSTGRESQL_PORT\`. Then run the following
command: \`\`\`bash psql -U POSTGRESQL_USERNAME -h POSTGRESQL_HOST -p
POSTGRESQL_PORT \`\`\` Using the values from the
\[example\](#relationship-reference), that would be: \`\`\`bash psql -U
main -h postgresql.internal -p 5432 \`\`\` You can obtain the complete
list of available service environment variables in your app container by
running \`\`upsun ssh env\`\`. Note that the information about the
relationship can change when an app is redeployed or restarted or the
relationship is changed. So your apps should only rely on the \[service
environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values. \## Exporting data The
easiest way to download all data in a PostgreSQL instance is with the
Upsun CLI. If you have a single SQL database, the following command
exports all data using the \`pg_dump\` command to a local file:
\`\`\`bash upsun db:dump \`\`\` If you have multiple SQL databases it
prompts you which one to export. You can also specify one by
relationship name explicitly: \`\`\`bash upsun db:dump \--relationship
postgresql \`\`\` By default the file is uncompressed. If you want to
compress it, use the \`\--gzip\` (\`-z\`) option: \`\`\`bash upsun
db:dump \--gzip \`\`\` You can use the \`\--stdout\` option to pipe the
result to another command. For example, if you want to create a
bzip2-compressed file, you can run: \`\`\`bash upsun db:dump \--stdout
\| bzip2 \> dump.sql.bz2 \`\`\` It is also possible to generate the dump
locally if you have the \`pg_dump\` command installed with \`upsun
tunnel:single\`. The command will first ask for the service and then
will provide a prompt for the URI string that you can use. For example:
\`\`\`bash pg_dump -d postgresql://REPLACE_URI_FROM_OUTPUT -f dump.sql
\`\`\` \## Importing data Make sure that the imported file contains
objects with cleared ownership and \`IF EXISTS\` clauses. For example,
you can create a DB dump with following parameters: \`\`\`bash pg_dump
\--no-owner \--clean \--if-exists \`\`\` The easiest way to load data
into a database is to pipe an SQL dump through the \`upsun sql\`
command, like so: \`\`\`bash upsun sql \< my_database_backup.sql \`\`\`
That runs the database backup against the SQL database on Upsun. That
works for any SQL file, so the usual caveats about importing an SQL dump
apply (for example, it\'s best to run against an empty database). As
with exporting, you can also specify a specific environment to use and a
specific database relationship to use, if there are multiple. \`\`\`bash
upsun sql \--relationship postgresql -e BRANCH_NAME \<
my_database_backup.sql \`\`\`

### Note

Importing a database backup is a destructive operation. It overwrites
data already in your database. Taking a backup or a database export
before doing so is strongly recommended.

\## Sanitizing data To ensure people who review code changes can\'t
access personally identifiable information stored in your database,
\[sanitize your preview
environments\](../development/sanitize-db/postgresql.md). \## Multiple
databases If you are using version \`10\`, \`11\`, \`12\`, \`13\`, or
later of this service, it\'s possible to define multiple databases as
well as multiple users with different permissions. To do so requires
defining multiple endpoints. Under the \`configuration\` key of your
service there are two additional keys: \* \`databases\`: This is a YAML
array listing the databases that should be created. If not specified, a
single database named \`main\` is created. Note that removing a schema
from the list of \`schemas\` on further deployments results in \*\*the
deletion of the schema.\*\* \* \`endpoints\`: This is a nested YAML
object defining different credentials. Each endpoint may have access to
one or more schemas (databases), and may have different levels of
permission for each. The valid permission levels are: \* \`ro\`: Using
this endpoint only \`SELECT\` queries are allowed. \* \`rw\`: Using this
endpoint \`SELECT\` queries as well as \`INSERT\`/\`UPDATE\`/\`DELETE\`
queries are allowed. \* \`admin\`: Using this endpoint all queries are
allowed, including DDL queries (\`CREATE TABLE\`, \`DROP TABLE\`, etc.).
Consider the following illustrative example: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \#
The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project.
postgresql: type: \"postgresql:16\" configuration: databases: - main -
legacy endpoints: admin: privileges: main: admin legacy: admin reporter:
default_database: main privileges: main: ro importer: default_database:
legacy privileges: legacy: rw \`\`\` This example creates a single
PostgreSQL service named \`postgresql\`. The server has two databases,
\`main\` and \`legacy\` with three endpoints created. \* \`admin\`: has
full access to both databases. \* \`reporter\`: has \`SELECT\` query
access to the \`main\` database, but no access to \`legacy\`. \*
\`importer\`: has \`SELECT\`/\`INSERT\`/\`UPDATE\`/\`DELETE\` access
(but not DDL access) to the \`legacy\` database. It doesn\'t have access
to \`main\`. If a given endpoint has access to multiple databases you
should also specify which is listed by default in the relationships
array. If one isn\'t specified, the \`path\` property of the
relationship is \`null\`. While that may be acceptable for an
application that knows the name of the database it\'s connecting to,
automated tools like the Upsun CLI can\'t access the database on that
relationship. For that reason, defining the \`default_database\`
property is always recommended. Once these endpoints are defined, you
need to expose them to your application as a relationship. Continuing
with the above example, your \`relationships\` in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`
might look like: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The name of the app
container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: source: root: \"/\"
\[\...\] \# Relationships enable access from this app to a given
service. \# The example below shows configuration with explicitly set
service names and endpoints. \# See the Application reference for all
options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships:
database: service: postgresql endpoint: admin reports: service:
postgresql endpoint: reporter imports: service: postgresql endpoint:
importer services: \# The name of the service container. Must be unique
within a project. postgresql: type: \"postgresql:16\" configuration:
databases: - main - legacy endpoints: admin: privileges: main: admin
legacy: admin reporter: default_database: main privileges: main: ro
importer: default_database: legacy privileges: legacy: rw \`\`\` Each
database is accessible to your application through the \`database\`,
\`reports\`, and \`imports\` relationships. They\'ll be available in the
\[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
and all have the same structure documented
\[above\](#relationship-reference), but with different credentials. You
can use those to connect to the appropriate database with the specified
restrictions using whatever the SQL access tools are for your language
and application. A service configuration without the \`configuration\`
block defined is equivalent to the following default values: \`\`\`yaml
{} services: \# The name of the service container. Must be unique within
a project. postgresql: type: \"postgresql:16\" configuration:
databases: - main endpoints: postgresql: default_database: main
privileges: main: admin \`\`\` If you do not define \`database\` but
\`endpoints\` are defined, then the single database \`main\` is created
with the following assumed configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The
name of the service container. Must be unique within a project.
postgresql: type: \"postgresql:16\" configuration: databases: - main
endpoints: \`\`\` Alternatively, if you define multiple databases but no
endpoints, a single user \`main\` is created with \`admin\` access to
each of your databases, equivalent to the configuration below:
\`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the service container. Must be
unique within a project. postgresql: type: \"postgresql:16\"
configuration: databases: - firstdb - seconddb - thirddb endpoints:
main: firstdb: admin seconddb: admin thirddb: admin \`\`\` \## Password
generation When you connect your app to a database, an empty password is
generated for the database by default. This can cause issues with your
app. To generate real passwords for your database, define custom
endpoints in your \[service configuration\](#1-configure-the-service).
For each custom endpoint you create, you get an automatically generated
password, similarly to when you create \[multiple
databases\](#multiple-databases). Note that you can\'t customize these
automatically generated passwords. After your custom endpoints are
exposed as relationships in your \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md), you can retrieve the
password for each endpoint through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
within your \[application
containers\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#access-variables-in-your-app).
The password value changes automatically over time, to avoid downtime
its value has to be read dynamically by your app. Globally speaking,
having passwords hard-coded into your codebase can cause security issues
and should be avoided. When you switch from the default configuration
with an empty password to custom endpoints, make sure your service name
remains unchanged. Failure to do so results in the creation of a new
service, which removes any existing data from your database. \## Service
timezone To change the timezone for the current session, run \`SET TIME
ZONE TIMEZONE;\`. \## Extensions Upsun supports a number of PostgreSQL
extensions. To enable them, list them under the
\`configuration.extensions\` key in your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file,
like so: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the service container.
Must be unique within a project. postgresql: type: \"postgresql:16\"
configuration: extensions: - pg_trgm - hstore \`\`\` In this case, you
have \`pg_trgm\` installed, providing functions to determine the
similarity of text based on trigram matching, and \`hstore\` providing a
key-value store. \### Available extensions The following is the
extensive list of supported extensions. Note that you can\'t currently
add custom extensions not listed here. \* \`address_standardizer\` -
Used to parse an address into constituent elements. Generally used to
support geocoding address normalization step. \*
\`address_standardizer_data_us\` - For standardizing addresses based on
US dataset example \* \`adminpack\` - administrative functions for
PostgreSQL \* \`autoinc\` - functions for auto-incrementing fields \*
\`bloom\` - bloom access method - signature file based index (requires
9.6 or higher) \* \`btree_gin\` - support for indexing common data types
in GIN \* \`btree_gist\` - support for indexing common data types in
GiST \* \`chkpass\` - data type for auto-encrypted passwords \*
\`citext\` - data type for case-insensitive character strings \*
\`cube\` - data type for multidimensional cubes \* \`dblink\` - connect
to other PostgreSQL databases from within a database \* \`dict_int\` -
text search dictionary template for integers \* \`dict_xsyn\` - text
search dictionary template for extended synonym processing \*
\`earthdistance\` - calculate great-circle distances on the surface of
the Earth \* \`file_fdw\` - foreign-data wrapper for flat file access \*
\`fuzzystrmatch\` - determine similarities and distance between strings
\* \`hstore\` - data type for storing sets of (key, value) pairs \*
\`insert_username\` - functions for tracking who changed a table \*
\`intagg\` - integer aggregator and enumerator (obsolete) \*
\`intarray\` - functions, operators, and index support for 1-D arrays of
integers \* \`isn\` - data types for international product numbering
standards \* \`lo\` - Large Object maintenance \* \`ltree\` - data type
for hierarchical tree-like structures \* \`moddatetime\` - functions for
tracking last modification time \* \`pageinspect\` - inspect the
contents of database pages at a low level \* \`pg_buffercache\` -
examine the shared buffer cache \* \`pg_freespacemap\` - examine the
free space map (FSM) \* \`pg_prewarm\` - prewarm relation data (requires
9.6 or higher) \* \`pg_stat_statements\` - track execution statistics of
all SQL statements executed \* \`pg_trgm\` - text similarity measurement
and index searching based on trigrams \* \`pg_visibility\` - examine the
visibility map (VM) and page-level visibility info (requires 9.6 or
higher) \* \`pgcrypto\` - cryptographic functions \* \`pgrouting\` -
pgRouting Extension (requires 9.6 or higher) \* \`pgrowlocks\` - show
row-level locking information \* \`pgstattuple\` - show tuple-level
statistics \* \`plpgsql\` - PL/pgSQL procedural language \*
\`postgis\` - PostGIS geometry, geography, and raster spatial types and
functions \* \`postgis_sfcgal\` - PostGIS SFCGAL functions \*
\`postgis_tiger_geocoder\` - PostGIS tiger geocoder and reverse geocoder
\* \`postgis_topology\` - PostGIS topology spatial types and functions
\* \`postgres_fdw\` - foreign-data wrapper for remote PostgreSQL servers
\* \`refint\` - functions for implementing referential integrity
(obsolete) \* \`seg\` - data type for representing line segments or
floating-point intervals \* \`sslinfo\` - information about SSL
certificates \* \`tablefunc\` - functions that manipulate whole tables,
including \`crosstab\` \* \`tcn\` - Triggered change notifications \*
\`timetravel\` - functions for implementing time travel \*
\`tsearch2\` - compatibility package for pre-8.3 text search functions
(obsolete, only available for 9.6 and 9.3) \* \`tsm_system_rows\` -
TABLESAMPLE method which accepts number of rows as a limit (requires 9.6
or higher) \* \`tsm_system_time\` - TABLESAMPLE method which accepts
time in milliseconds as a limit (requires 9.6 or higher) \*
\`unaccent\` - text search dictionary that removes accents \*
\`uuid-ossp\` - generate universally unique identifiers (UUIDs) \*
\`vector\` - Open-source
\[vector\](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector) similarity search for
PostgreSQL 11+ \* \`xml2\` - XPath querying and XSLT

### Note

You can't upgrade to PostgreSQL 12 with the `postgis` extension enabled.
For more details, see how to [upgrade to PostgreSQL 12 with
`postgis`](#upgrade-to-postgresql-12-with-the-postgis-extension).

\## Notes \### Could not find driver If you see this error: \`Fatal
error: Uncaught exception \'PDOException\' with message \'could not find
driver\'\`, this means you are missing the \`pdo_pgsql\` PHP extension.
You need to enable it in your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` (\[see
above\](#1-configure-the-service)). \## Upgrading PostgreSQL 10 and
later include an upgrade utility that can convert databases from
previous versions to version 10 or later. If you upgrade your service
from a previous version of PostgreSQL to version 10 or above, it
upgrades automatically. The utility can\'t upgrade PostgreSQL 9
versions, so upgrades from PostgreSQL 9.3 to 9.6 aren\'t supported.
Upgrade straight to version 11 instead.

### Note

Make sure you first test your migration on a separate branch.

Also, be sure to take a backup of your production environment **before**
you merge this change.

### Warning

Downgrading isn't supported. If you need to downgrade, dump to SQL,
remove the service, recreate the service, and import your dump.

\### Upgrade to PostgreSQL 12 with the \`postgis\` extension You can\'t
upgrade to PostgreSQL 12 with the \`postgis\` extension enabled. It
involves a change to a major version that results in a failed deployment
that requires support intervention to fix. Upgrading from 12 to a higher
version is possible. If you need to upgrade to version 12, follow the
same steps recommended for downgrading: 1. Dump the database. 2. Remove
the service. 3. Create a new service with PostgreSQL 12. 4. Import the
dump to that service. #Restore an environment from a backup Once you
have \[backups of your environment\](./backup.md), you can restore data
from a previous point. To restore an environment, you need an \[Admin
role for that environment type\](../administration/users.md). \## 1.
List available backups To restore an environment, first select one of
the available backups:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following command:

`upsun backups`

You get a response similar to the following:

`Backups on the project My Project (1234567abcdef), environment main (type: production): +---------------------------+----------------------------+------------+ | Created | Backup ID | Restorable | +---------------------------+----------------------------+------------+ | 2022-08-15T09:48:58+01:00 | 5ouvtgo4v75axijww7sqnftste | true | | 2022-07-09T14:17:17+01:00 | 7jks7dru5xpx5p5id5wtypur2y | true | | 2022-06-22T18:33:29+01:00 | f3jbyxlhtmalco67fmfoxs7n4m | true | +---------------------------+----------------------------+------------+`

Select one of the backups marked as **Restorable** and copy its **Backup
ID**.

1.  Navigate to the environment where you want to see backups.
2.  Click **Backups**.

Select one of the backups marked as having completed successfully
![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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).

\## 2. Restore from a backup To restore the backup you\'ve selected,
follow these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun backup:restore BACKUP_ID`

2.  Press `enter` to agree with the consequences and continue.

<!-- -->

1.  Next to the backup you've selected, click **More**
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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).
2.  Click **Restore**.
3.  Read through the consequences and click **Yes, Restore**.

The data is restored and your backed-up environment is deployed. This
deployment uses the built app, including variables, from when the backup
was taken.

### Warning

The code is also initially restored, but Upsun doesn't modify your Git
repository. So any future (re)deployments use the current Git repository
to build the environment.

To restore your code to its previous state when the backup was taken,
use Git commands such as revert.

Note that you can also opt out of restoring the code entirely by using
the `--no-code` flag. For more information, see [how backup and restore
works on Upsun](/environments/backup.html#how-backup-and-restore-works).

Also, see [how resource allocation
works](/manage-resources/resource-init.html#backup-restoration) when you
restore a backup.

\## Restore to a different environment You can restore backups to a
different environment than they were created on using the CLI: 1. Switch
to the branch where the backup was created. 2. To restore your backup to
an existing environment, run the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun
backup:restore \--target=TARGET_ENVIRONMENT_NAME BACKUP_ID \`\`\` If
your target environment doesn\'t exist yet, you can create it by
\[branching an existing environment\](/glossary.md#branch). The new
target environment will be an exact copy of the existing (parent)
environment. To do so, use the \`\--branch-from\` option to specify the
parent of your new target environment: \`\`\`bash upsun backup:restore
\--target=TARGET_ENVIRONMENT_NAME \--branch-from=PARENT_ENVIRONMENT_NAME
BACKUP_ID \`\`\` #What YAML is
\[YAML\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) is a human-readable format
for data serialization. This means it can be used for structured data,
like what you can find in configuration files. Some basic rules about
YAML files: - YAML files end in \`.yaml\`. Some other systems use the
alternative \`.yml\` extension. - YAML is case-sensitive. - YAML is
whitespace-sensitive and indentation defines the structure, but it
doesn\'t accept tabs for indentation. - Empty lines are ignored. -
Comments are preceded by an octothorpe \`#\`. \## Data types YAML
represents data through three primitive data structures: - Scalars
(strings/numbers/booleans) - Mappings (dictionaries/objects) - Sequences
(arrays/lists) \### Scalars (strings/numbers/booleans) The most
straightforward data structure involves defining key--value pairs where
the values are strings or integers. So you could have a basic
configuration for an app: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type:
\"golang:1.18\" source: root: /app hooks: build: ./build.sh \`\`\` You
can spot three key--value pairs: \| Key \| Value \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| \`type\` \|
\"golang:1.18\" \| \| \`root\` \| root: /app \| \| \`build \` \|
./build.sh \| You can define strings either with or without quotes,
which can be single \`\'\` or double \`\"\`. Quotes let you escape
characters (if double) and make sure the value is parsed as a string
when you want it. For example, you might be representing version numbers
and want to parse them as strings. If you use \`version: 1.10\`, it\'s
parsed as an integer and so is treated the same as \`1.1\`. If you use
\`version: \"1.10\"\`, it\'s parsed as a string and isn\'t treated as
the same as \`1.1\`. \### Mappings (dictionaries/objects) In addition to
basic scalar values, each key can also represent a set of other
key--value pairs. So you can define entire dictionaries of pairs. The
structure of the mapping is determined by the indentation. So children
are indented more than parents and siblings have the same amount of
indentation. The exact number of spaces in the indentation isn\'t
important, just the level relative to the rest of the map. In contrast,
when you define mappings, the order doesn\'t matter. So you could expand
the configuration from before to add another mapping: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: type: \"golang:1.18\" web: commands: start:
./bin/app locations: \'/\': passthru: true allow: false \`\`\` This
creates a \`web\` dictionary that has two dictionaries within it:
\`commands\` and \`locations\`, each with their own mappings: - \`web\`
→ \`commands\` → \`start: ./bin/app\` - \`web\` → \`locations\` →
\`\'/\'\` → \`passthru: true\` and \`allow: false\` \### Sequences
(arrays/lists) In addition to maps defining further key--value pairs,
you can also use sequences to include lists of information. \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: myapp: web: locations: \'/\': index: - index.html -
index.htm passthru: true allow: false \`\`\` You can also define
sequences using a flow syntax: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: web:
locations: \'/\': index: \[index.html, index.htm\] passthru: true allow:
false \`\`\` In either case, you get a list of values within \`index\`:
\`web\` → \`locations\` → \`\'/\'\` → \`index\` → \`index.html\` and
\`index.htm\` \## Define multi-line strings If you have a long string
that spans multiple lines, use a pipe \`\|\` to preserve line breaks.
The new lines need to have at least the same indentation as the first
(you can add more indentation that\'s then preserved). So you could add
a multi-line string to a \`build\` key in the \`hooks\` map: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: myapp: hooks: build: \| set -x -e cp a.txt b.txt \`\`\`
And the resulting value preserves the line break. This lets you do
things like enter small shell scripts within a YAML file. \`hooks\` →
\`build\` → \`set -x -e\` and \`cp a.txt b.txt\` \## Reuse content YAML
supports internal named references, known as anchors, which can be
referenced using an alias. This allows you to reuse YAML blocks in
multiple places within a single file. Define an anchor by adding \`&\`
to the start of a value, where \`\` is a unique identifier. The anchor
represents this entire value. Then refer to the anchor using \`\*\`. The
following example shows 4 different workers: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: \# \... workers: queue1: &runner commands: start: python
queue-worker.py queue2: \*runner queue3: \<\<: \*runner \`\`\` All of
the workers above are identical to each other. Note that you need to
place an alias with \`\<\<:\` at the same level as the other keys within
that value. \## What\'s next - See what Upsun makes possible with
\[custom tags\](./platform-yaml-tags.md). - Read everything that\'s
possible with YAML in the \[YAML
specification\](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/). - See a \[YAML file that
explains YAML syntax\](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/yaml/). #{{%
vendor/name %}} YAML structure In addition to the \[basic functions you
should be familiar with\](./what-is-yaml.md), YAML structure is
important. Upsun accepts a specific structure for YAML configuration
files. \## YAML file location When you run the \[\`upsun project:init\`
command\](/get-started/here/configure/\_index.md), a default
\`\`config.yaml\`\` file is generated in the \`.upsun\` folder. It
contains the minimum default configuration based on your detected local
stack. This YAML file is located in your \`\`.upsun\`\` directory, at
the root of your project source code, and is a good starting point
before customization. \`\`\`bash . ├── .upsun \| └── config.yaml └──

\`\`\` \## Mandatory top-level keys In the \`\`config.yaml\`\` file,
there are only three mandatory top-level YAML keys: -
\`\`applications\`\`: this section of the file contains all of your
\[app definitions\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image) -
\`\`routes\`\`: this section of the file contains all of your \[route
definitions\](/define-routes) (for each of your apps) -
\`\`services\`\`: this section of the file contains all of your
\[service definitions\](/add-services) (for each of your apps) This
looks like: \`\`\`yaml {}
[applications](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html):
myapp: \... [services](/add-services.html#available-services): mariadb:
type: mariadb:10.6 \# All available versions are: 10.6, 10.5, 10.4, 10.3
[routes](/define-routes.html "The routes of the project. Each route describes how an incoming URL is going to be processed by {{% vendor/name %}} (Staging). Click for more information."):
\"https://{default}/\": type: upstream upstream: \"myapp:http\" \`\`\`
Below these three top-level key sections, you can use any of the
\[available YAML tags\](./platform-yaml-tags.md) you need.

### Note

Any YAML files located at the first level of your `.upsun` folder, at
the root of your project source code, are taken in account. See [Rules
on YAML files](#rules-on-yaml-files).

\## Rules on YAML files The following rules apply to YAML files
contained in the \`\`.upsun\`\` folder: - All the existing YAML files
located at the first level of the \`\`.upsun\`\` folder are taken into
account. - All the existing YAML files located at the first level of the
\`\`.upsun\`\` folder must feature the \[mandatory top-level
keys\](#mandatory-top-level-keys), and must contain a \[valid YAML
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md). -
All the YAML files in subdirectories of the \`\`.upsun\`\` folder need
to be \[manually
imported\](/learn/overview/yaml/platform-yaml-tags.md#include) and
contain a \[valid YAML
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md).

### Warning

When Upsun combines all the YAML files located at the first level of the
`.upsun` folder, only the top-level keys (`applications`, `services`,
and `routes`) are merged. So if you define an app named `myapp` in two
different YAML files, Upsun only takes the second one into account.

Example:

.upsun/app.yaml
`applications: myapp: type: nodejs:16 source: root: folder1 ...`
.upsun/app-bis.yaml
`applications: myapp: type: nodejs:20 build: flavor: none ...`

Once Upsun has combined the two configuration files, the blended
configuration will be the following:

YAML config result
`applications: myapp: type: nodejs:20 build: flavor: none ...`

Note that `source.root` (and any other `.upsun/app.yaml` parameters)
will *not* be included in the final configuration.

#Utility routines The following utility routines can help simplify
common tasks in your activity scripts. They're free to copy, modify,
bend, fold, spindle, and mutilate as needed for your own scripts. They
also demonstrate some common patterns for working with the `activity`
and `project` data structures. \## Route access \`\`\`javascript /\*\*
\* Returns just those routes that point to a valid upstream. \* \* This
method is similar to routes(), but filters out redirect routes that are
rarely \* useful for app configuration. If desired it can also filter to
just those routes \* whose upstream is a given application name. To
retrieve routes that point to the \* current application where the code
is being run, use: \* \* routes = getUpstreamRoutes(applicationName); \*
\* \@param {string} \[appName\] \* The name of the upstream app on which
to filter, if any. \* \@return {object} \* An object map of route
definitions. The generated URLs of the routes are added as a \"url\"
key. \*/ function getUpstreamRoutes(appName) { return
Object.entries(activity.payload.deployment.routes).reduce( (upstreams,
\[url, route\]) =\> route.type === \"upstream\" && (!appName \|\|
appName === route.upstream.split(\":\")\[0\]) ? { \...upstreams,
\[url\]: { \...route, url, }, } : upstreams, {} ); } \`\`\`
\`\`\`javascript /\*\* \* Returns the primary route. \* \* The primary
route is the one marked primary in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`, or else \*
the first non-redirect route in that file if none are marked. \* \*
\@return {object} \* The route definition. The generated URL of the
route is added as a \"url\" key. \*/ function getPrimaryRoute() { return
Object.entries(activity.payload.deployment.routes).reduce( (primary,
\[url, route\]) =\> route.primary ? { \...route, url, } : primary, {} );
} \`\`\` \`\`\`javascript /\*\* \* Returns the route definition that has
the specified id. \* \* Note: If no route ID was specified in
.upsun/config.yaml then it will not be possible \* to look up a route by
ID. \* \* \@param {string} id \* The ID of the route to load. \*
\@return {object} \* The route definition. The generated URL of the
route is added as a \"url\" key. \* \@throws {Error} \* If there is no
route by that ID, an exception is thrown. \*/ function getRoute(id) {
const found = Object.entries(activity.payload.deployment.routes).reduce(
(foundRoute, \[url, route\]) =\> route.id === id ? { \...route, url, } :
foundRoute, null ); if (found === null) { throw new Error(\`No such
route id found: \${id}\`); } return found; } \`\`\` #Health
notifications Upsun can notify you when various events happen on your
project, in any environment. At this time the only notification provided
is a low disk space warning, but others may be added in the future. To
add or modify an integration for a project, you need to be a \[project
admin\](../administration/users.md#project-roles). \## Default low-disk
email notifications When you create a new project, Upsun creates a
default \[low-disk email notification\](#low-disk-warning) for all
\[project admins\](../administration/users.md#project-roles). \##
Available notifications \### Low-disk warning Upsun monitors disk space
usage on all applications and services in your cluster. \* When
available disk space drops below 20% or 4 GB, whichever is smaller, a
warning notification is generated. \* When available disk space drops
below 10% or 2 GB, whichever is smaller, a critical notification is
generated. \* When available disk space returns above 20% or 4 GB,
whichever is smaller, an all-clear notification is generated.
Notifications are generated every 5 minutes, so there may be a brief
delay between when the threshold is crossed and when the notification is
triggered. \## Configuring notifications Health notifications can be set
up via the \[Upsun CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md), through a
number of different channels. \### Email notifications A notification
can trigger an email to be sent, from an address of your choosing to one
or more addresses of your choosing. You can view an email notification
by running \`upsun integration:get\`. \`\`\`bash upsun integration:get
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+ \| Property
\| Value \| +\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| id \| abcdefghijklm \| \| type \| health.email \| \| role \| \| \|
from_address \| \| \| recipients \| - \'#admins\' \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+ \`\`\` To
edit the \`recipients\` that receive the default email notification, use
the \`integration:update\` command. \`\`\`bash upsun integration:update
abcdefghijklm \--recipients you@example.com \`\`\` The \`recipients\`
field may be any valid email address, or one of the following special
values. \* \`#admins\` maps to all project admins and up. \*
\`#viewers\` maps to everyone with access to the project. To add a new
email notification, register a \`health.email\` integration as follows:
\`\`\`bash upsun integration:add \--type health.email \--recipients
them@example.com \--recipients others@example.com \`\`\` You must
specify one or more \`recipients\`, each as its own switch. The default
\`from-address\` points to the \"Upsun Bot\". You can also configure a
custom \`\--from-address\`. The \`\--from-address\` is whatever address
you want the email to appear to be from. It is completely fine to use
the same email address for both \`from-address\` and \`recipients\`.
Note that depending on the configuration of the recipient mail server
(including SPF and DKIM DNS entries) when using a custom
\`from-address\`, the email can be marked as spam or lost. \### Slack
notifications A notification can trigger a message to be posted to a
Slack channel via a \[Slack app\](https://api.slack.com/apps). \#### 1.
Optional: Create a Slack app

### Note

If you are already have a Slack app, you can jump to [enabling
notifications](#2-enable-notifications).

1\. Open the \[Slack API website\](https://api.slack.com/) and go to
\*\*Your apps\*\*. 2. Click \*\*Create an App\*\*. 3. Choose if you want
to build your app from scratch, or via \[an app
manifest\](https://api.slack.com/concepts/manifests). 4. Give your app a
name. 5. Select a workspace to install your app in.

### Note

If you are not an admin of the selected workspace, request approval to
install your app there.

6\. Click \*\*Create App\*\*. \#### 2. Enable notifications 1. Open the
\[Slack API website\](https://api.slack.com/) and go to \*\*Your
apps\*\*. 2. Go to \*\*Features\*\* \> \*\*OAuth & Permissions\*\* in
the sidebar. 3. Scroll down to the \*\*Scopes\*\* area and select
\*\*User Token Scopes\*\*. 4. Click \*\*Add an OAuth Scope\*\* to add
the \`chat:write\` scope. \![Slack app
scopes\](/images/slack/slack-app-scopes.png \"0.30\") 5. Go to
\*\*Settings\*\* \> \*\*Install app\*\* in the sidebar.

### Note

If you are *not* an admin of the workspace, you need to provide a link
to install the app into the workspace and onto a channel.

Once the app is approved and installed, a **User OAuth Token** is
provided in your app settings. Copy the token, and use it in the next
step.

6\. Using the \*\*User OAuth Token\*\*, run the following command:
\`\`\`bash upsun integration:add \--type health.slack \--token
USER_OAUTH_TOKEN \--channel CHANNEL_NAME \--project PROJECT_ID \`\`\`
For example, if you want your Slack app to post messages in the
\`project-notifications\` channel, write the channel name in the command
as you would reference it within Slack: \`\`\`bash upsun integration:add
\--type health.slack \... \--channel \'#project-notifications\' \...
\`\`\` 6. When the integration is successfully configured, Upsun then
sends an initial message to the channel.

### Bot users v. Slack apps

Previously, Upsun allowed for the configuration of health notifications
sent to Slack via *bot users* and their associated API tokens. As of
June 2024, Slack has deprecated bot users, and integrations must be
configured using Slack apps as described above.

If you already have defined an integration using a bot user API token,
it will continue to work properly, though you should consider upgrading
your processes to the above settings to avoid any future retirement.

\### PagerDuty notifications A notification can trigger a message to be
sent via PagerDuty, if you are using that service. First, create a new
PagerDuty
\"\[integration\](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/services-and-integrations)\"
that uses the Events API v2. Copy the \"Integration Key\" as known as
the \"routing key\" for the integration. Now register a
\`health.pagerduty\` integration as follows: \`\`\`bash upsun
integration:add \--type health.pagerduty \--routing-key YOUR_ROUTING_KEY
\`\`\` Any notification will now trigger an alert in PagerDuty. \##
Validate the integration You can then verify that your integration is
functioning properly \[using the
CLI\](/integrations/overview.md#validate-integrations) command
\`\`\`bash upsun integration:validate \`\`\` #Organizations
Organizations allow you to manage your Upsun projects, users, and
billing. You can group multiple projects in one organization and manage
them together. To manage users within your organization, see how to
\[manage organization users\](./users.md#manage-organization-users). \##
Manage your organization settings As an organization owner, you can
manage the basic settings for your organization such as its name and
URL.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to the organization you want to manage (or a project in
    it).
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Click **Settings**.
4.  Click **Edit** to edit the label or click in the **Organization
    URL** field to edit the URL.
5.  Click **Save**.

To change the name (URL) and label of the `acme` organization, run:

`upsun organization:info --org acme label "Acme Corp" name acme-corp`

To verify the changes, run:

`upsun organization:info --org acme-corp` \## Manage your organization
billing As an organization owner or an organization user with the
\*\*Manage billing\*\* permission, you can access and download invoices
and edit billing information such as the stored credit card and billing
address.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console

1.  Navigate to the organization you want to manage (or a project in
    it).
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Click **Billing**.

\## Create a new organization When you create a new project, if you
don\'t already have an organization, one is created for you
automatically. You can create new organizations with different payment
methods and billing addresses and organize your projects as you want.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to your existing organization or a project in it.
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Click **Create Organization**.
4.  Enter the required information (label, organization URL, company
    name, country, security contact).
5.  Click **Create organization**.

To create an organization with the label `Acme` and the name (URL)
`acme`, run:

`upsun organization:create --label "Acme" --name acme --country "United States"`

To verify the changes, run:

`upsun organization:info --org acme`

### Note

To monitor your spend, you can [set billing
alerts](/administration/billing/monitor-billing.html#manage-billing-alerts)
on your new organization. Billing alerts are based on a [current month
estimate](/administration/billing/monitor-billing.html#current-month-estimate).
Once that estimate reaches a defined threshold, you receive an email
notification.

\## Delete an existing organization As an organization owner, you can
delete your own organization. Note that if your organization owns
projects or owes remaining invoices, you can not delete it yourself. To
have it deleted, \[contact support\](/learn/overview/get-support.md).

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to your existing organization or a project in it.
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Click **Settings**.
4.  Click **Delete Organization**.
5.  Confirm your decision by clicking **Delete**.

To delete the organization `acme`, run:

`upsun organization:delete --org acme` \## Transfer project ownership
You can transfer your plan ownership to a different organization at
anytime. You have to be an organization owner or have the \[manage plan
permission\](./users.md#organization-permissions). 1. Make the new
organization owner a \[project admin\](./users.md#) for the project you
want to transfer. 2. To ask for the transfer, from your organization
account open a \[support ticket\](/learn/overview/get-support). Once the
transfer is completed, the new organization can administer all project
settings and billing and receives future invoices. Ownership transfer
automatically transfers subscription charges to the new organization.
\## Transfer organization ownership To transfer an organization to a
different owner, first make sure that user is part of the organization.
If they aren\'t yet, \[add
them\](./users.md#add-a-user-to-an-organization). Then open a \[support
ticket\](/learn/overview/get-support) from the current organization to
ask for the transfer. #Administer teams

**Feature Availability**

This feature is available as part of the Standard User Management
add-on. To enable it on your organization, administer your
organization's billing.

Organizations on Upsun are made up of both \[projects\](/projects/) and
\[users\](/administration/users.md). While organizations by themselves
allow you to assign project and environment type permissions to
individual users on individual projects, having many users and many
projects calls for another method to group common access control
settings. \*\*Teams\*\* provide a grouping that connects a subset of an
organization\'s users to another subset of that organization\'s
projects. That relationship enables organization owners to set default
project and environment type access settings for each user and project
from one place. There is no limit to the number of teams that can be
defined within a single organization. \## Create a new team As an
organization owner or member with \*\*Manage users\*\* permissions, you
can create new teams. Teams must belong to an organization, so \[create
one\](/administration/organizations.md#create-a-new-organization) first.
You can create new organizations with different payment methods and
billing addresses and organize your projects as you want, but keep in
mind that both users and teams are restricted to single organizations.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to your existing organization.
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Select **Teams** from the dropdown.
4.  Click **+ Create team**.
5.  Enter the information for your team. Only the team name is required
    at this point, but you can define environment type permissions now
    if you'd like.
6.  Click **Create team**.

<!-- -->

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun team:create -o ORGANIZATION_NAME`

2.  Enter a team name.

3.  Define your team's project role (admin or viewer).

4.  If your team has viewer rights on the project, define its role on
    each type of environment.

5.  Enter `Y` to confirm.

### Note

To view a list of all the existing teams in your organization, run the
following command:

`upsun team:list -o ORGANIZATION_NAME`

\## Delete an existing team As an organization owner or member with
\*\*Manage users\*\* permissions, you can delete existing teams. Note
that deleting teams and deleting users are not equivalent. Deleting a
team will remove member access permissions to projects described by the
team, but it will \_not\_ \[remove users from the
organization\](/administration/users.md#remove-a-user-from-an-organization)
(or your billing).

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to your existing organization
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Select **Teams** from the dropdown.
4.  Find the team you want to delete under the **Manage teams** list,
    then click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
5.  Click **Delete team**.
6.  Click **Yes** to confirm.

<!-- -->

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun team:delete -o ORGANIZATION_NAME`

2.  Select the team you want to delete.

3.  Enter `Y` to confirm.

\## Manage team settings As an organization owner or member with
\*\*Manage users\*\* permissions, you can manage the settings of
existing teams such as: - \[It\'s name\](#team-name) - \[The environment
type permissions granted to members on individual
projects\](#project\--environment-type-permissions) - \[Team
members\](#team-members) - \[Project access\](#team-access-to-projects)
\### Team name

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to your existing organization.
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Select **Teams** from the dropdown.
4.  Find the team you want to rename under the **Manage teams** list,
    then click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
5.  Click **Edit team**.
6.  In the sidebar click the **Edit** link, and edit the team name.
7.  Click **Save**.

<!-- -->

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun team:update -o ORGANIZATION_NAME`

2.  Select the team you want to rename.

3.  Enter the new name.

4.  Confirm or adjust the team permissions.

5.  Enter `Y` to confirm.

\### Project & environment type permissions The primary purpose of teams
is to allow organizations to quickly apply, audit, and update project
and environment type permissions for groups of users.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to your existing organization

2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).

3.  Select **Teams** from the dropdown.

4.  Find the team you want to modify under the **Manage teams** list,
    then click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.

5.  Click **Edit team**.

6.  In the sidebar, you can:

    -   Assign **Project permissions** by selecting the check box to
        make team members *Project admins* of every project added to the
        team.
    -   Assign **Environment type permissions** by using the dropdowns
        to grant *No access*, *Viewer*, *Contributor*, or *Admin* rights
        to team members for *Production*, *Staging*, and *Development*
        project environment types.

7.  Click **Save**.

<!-- -->

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun team:update -o ORGANIZATION_NAME`

2.  Select the team whose permissions you want to update.

3.  Confirm or adjust the team name.

4.  Adjust the team permissions.

5.  Enter `Y` to confirm.

\### Team members \#### Add users to a team To join a team, a user must
already have been added \[to the
organization\](/administration/users.md#manage-organization-access),
where their \[organization
permissions\](/administration/users.md#organization-permissions) are
defined.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to your existing organization.
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Select **Teams** from the dropdown.
4.  Find the team you want to modify under the **Manage teams** list,
    then click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
5.  Click **Add user**.
6.  Locate and select organization users from the dropdown.
7.  In the sidebar click the **Edit** link, and edit the team name.
8.  Click **Add users**.

<!-- -->

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun team:user:add -o ORGANIZATION_NAME`

2.  Select the team you want to add a user to.

3.  Enter the user's email address.

4.  Enter `Y` to confirm.

### Note

To view a list of all the users on a team, follow these steps:

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun team:user:list -o ORGANIZATION_NAME`

2.  Select the team whose users you want to display.

\#### Remove users from a team Note that deleting users from teams and
deleting users from organizations are not equivalent. Deleting users
from a team will remove member access permissions to projects described
by the team, but it will \_not\_ \[remove users from the
organization\](/administration/users.md#remove-a-user-from-an-organization)
(or your billing).

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to your existing organization.
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Select **Teams** from the dropdown.
4.  Find the team you want to modify under the **Manage teams** list,
    then click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiA2LjVDMTIuODI4NCA2LjUgMTMuNSA1LjgyODQzIDEzLjUgNUMxMy41IDQuMTcxNTcgMTIuODI4NCAzLjUgMTIgMy41QzExLjE3MTYgMy41IDEwLjUgNC4xNzE1NyAxMC41IDVDMTAuNSA1LjgyODQzIDExLjE3MTYgNi41IDEyIDYuNVoiIC8+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAxMy41QzEyLjgyODQgMTMuNSAxMy41IDEyLjgyODQgMTMuNSAxMkMxMy41IDExLjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxMC41IDEyIDEwLjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxMC41IDEwLjUgMTEuMTcxNiAxMC41IDEyQzEwLjUgMTIuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDEzLjUgMTIgMTMuNVoiIC8+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    More**.
5.  Click **Edit team**.
6.  Find the user you want to remove under the **USERS** tab view, then
    click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
7.  Click **Remove user**.
8.  Click **Yes** to confirm.

<!-- -->

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun team:user:delete -o ORGANIZATION_NAME`

2.  Select a team.

3.  Select the user you want to remove from the team.

4.  Enter `Y` to confirm.

\### Team access to projects \#### Adding projects to a team\'s access

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

**Option 1: Add projects to team with from Team settings**

1.  Navigate to your existing organization.
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Select **Teams** from the dropdown.
4.  Find the team you want to modify under the **Manage teams** list,
    then click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
5.  Click **Edit team**.
6.  Click **+ Add projects**.
7.  Select **All projects**, or choose individual projects from the
    dropdown.

### Note

**All projects** refers to all existing projects. Any future project you
create will need to be added to the team manually.

1.  Click **Add to team**.

**Option 2: Add teams to project from project's Access settings**

1.  Navigate to your existing organization.
2.  Select the project you want to add to the existing team.
3.  Navigate to the project's settings by clicking the
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    Settings** icon.
4.  Click **Access** settings under **Project settings** in the sidebar.
5.  Select the **TEAMS** tab in the **Access** list view.
6.  Click **+Add to projects**.
7.  Select **All teams**, or choose individual teams from the dropdown.

### Note

**All teams** refers to all existing teams. Any future team you create
will need to be added to the project manually.

1.  Click **Add to team**.

<!-- -->

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun team:project:add -o ORGANIZATION_NAME`

2.  Select a team.

3.  Select the project you want the team to access.

4.  Enter `Y` to confirm.

### Note

To view a list of all the projects added to a team, follow these steps:

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun team:project:list -o ORGANIZATION_NAME`

2.  Select the team whose projects you want to display.

\#### Remove project from team\'s access

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the Console
-   Using the CLI

**Option 1: Remove projects from a team with from Team settings**

1.  Navigate to your existing organization.
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Select **Teams** from the dropdown.
4.  Find the team you want to modify under the **Manage teams** list,
    then click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
5.  Click **Edit team**.
6.  Find the project you want to modify under the **PROJECTS** tab view,
    then click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
7.  Click **Remove project**.
8.  Select **All projects**, or choose individual projects from the
    dropdown.
9.  Click **Yes** to confirm.

**Option 2: Remove teams from a project from project's Access settings**

1.  Navigate to your existing organization.
2.  Select the project you want to add to the existing team.
3.  Navigate to the project's settings by clicking the
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    Settings** icon.
4.  Click **Access** settings under **Project settings** in the sidebar.
5.  Find the team under the **TEAMS** tab view, then click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
6.  Click **Remove team**.
7.  Click **Yes** to confirm.

<!-- -->

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun team:project:delete -o ORGANIZATION_NAME`

2.  Select a team.

3.  Select the project whose access you want to revoke for the team.

4.  Enter `Y` to confirm.

#Administer users Upsun offers very granular and flexible user
permissions across projects and organizations. When a user is added to a
project, they are automatically added to your organization.

### Available add-on

The Standard User Management add-on offers free viewer permissions,
custom [organization permissions](#organization-permissions), teams, and
MFA enforcement within an organization. See how to [subscribe to this
add-on](/administration/billing/add-on-subscription.html#standard-user-management-add-on).

\## Manage project access If you have set up an external integration to
GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket and your users can\'t clone the project
locally, see how to \[troubleshoot source
integrations\](../integrations/source/troubleshoot.md). \### Project
roles A user can have one of the following roles to control their access
at project level: \| Role \| View environment \| Push code \| Manage
user access \| Change settings \| Execute actions on all environments \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| Project admin \| Yes \| Yes \| Yes \| Yes \| Yes \| \| Project viewer
\| Yes \| No \| No \| No \| No \| By default, organization owners have
\*\*Project admin\*\* access on all of the projects within their
organization. \### Environment type roles An environment type
(Production, Staging, and Development) groups one or more environments
together so that you can manage access for all environments of that
type: - A role assigned to an environment type applies to all
environments of that type. - Only one environment per project can be of
the type: Production. It is set automatically as the default branch and
can\'t be overridden separately. - You can change an environment\'s type
(except for the Production environment). - You can have multiple preview
(staging and development) environments. A user can have one of the
following roles on an environment type which grants them permissions on
all environments of this type: \| Role \| View environment \| Force push
\| Push code \| Branch environment \| SSH access \| Change settings \|
Execute actions \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| Admin \| Yes \| Yes \| Yes \| Yes \| Yes \| Yes \| Yes \| \|
Contributor \| Yes \| No \| Yes \| Yes \| Yes \| No \| No \| \| Viewer
\| Yes \| No \| No \| Yes \| No \| No \| No \| To customize which roles
can use SSH, set \[\`access\` in your app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#access).
\### View a user\'s permissions across all of the projects in your
organization For each user, you can view a summary of their roles and
permissions across all projects in your organization.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

This feature is available for **v4.1.2+** of the CLI.

Run a command similar to the following, using the email address of the
user whose permissions you want to view:

`upsun organization:user:projects --org ORGANIZATION_NAME EMAIL_ADDRESS`

1.  Navigate to your organization.
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Click **Users**.
4.  For the user whose user permissions you want to view, click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiA2LjVDMTIuODI4NCA2LjUgMTMuNSA1LjgyODQzIDEzLjUgNUMxMy41IDQuMTcxNTcgMTIuODI4NCAzLjUgMTIgMy41QzExLjE3MTYgMy41IDEwLjUgNC4xNzE1NyAxMC41IDVDMTAuNSA1LjgyODQzIDExLjE3MTYgNi41IDEyIDYuNVoiIC8+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAxMy41QzEyLjgyODQgMTMuNSAxMy41IDEyLjgyODQgMTMuNSAxMkMxMy41IDExLjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxMC41IDEyIDEwLjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxMC41IDEwLjUgMTEuMTcxNiAxMC41IDEyQzEwLjUgMTIuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDEzLjUgMTIgMTMuNVoiIC8+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    More**.
5.  Click **Edit user**.

\### Add a user to a project To invite a user, you need to be a
\[project admin\](#project-roles). To add a user, follow these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

To add a user, run the following command:

`upsun user:add EMAIL_ADDRESS -r PERMISSIONS_TO_GRANT`

For example, if you want to add `user1@example.com` to the project as a
project admin, run the following command:

`upsun user:add user1@example.com -r admin`

If you want to add `user2@example.com` to the project as a contributor
for Development environments and a viewer for Staging environments, run
the following command:

`upsun user:add user2@example.com -r development:contributor -r staging:viewer`

1.  Select the project where you want to add a new user.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
3.  Click **Access**.
4.  Click **+ Add**.
5.  Add the user's details and choose their permissions.
6.  Click **Save**.

The user has to create an account before they can access the project.
Once you add a user to a project, they receive an invitation email with
instructions. To apply SSH access changes after you add a user to a
project, \[trigger a
redeploy\](../development/troubleshoot.md#force-a-redeploy). \### Manage
project users To manage user permissions on a project, you need to be a
\[project admin\](#project-roles), be an organization owner, or have the
\[\*\*Manage users\*\* permission for the
organization\](#organization-permissions). To change user permissions,
follow these steps:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

To update an existing user's permissions, run the following command:

`upsun user:update EMAIL_ADDRESS -r PERMISSIONS_TO_GRANT`

If you want `user1@example.com` to be a viewer for Production
environments and a contributor for Development environments, run the
following command:

`upsun user:update user1@example.com -r production:viewer,development:contributor`

1.  Select the project where you want to update user access.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
3.  Click **Access**.
4.  Click the user you want to update permissions for.
5.  Update environment type permissions, or click **Remove user**.
6.  Click **Accept**.

To apply SSH access changes after you add a remove a user from a project
or environment type, \[trigger a
redeploy\](../development/troubleshoot.md#force-a-redeploy). \### Remove
a user from a project To remove a user from a project, you need to be a
\[project admin\](#project-roles), be an organization owner, or have the
\[\*\*Manage users\*\* permission for the
organization\](#organization-permissions). To remove a user, follow
these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following command:

`upsun user:delete user1@example.com`

1.  Navigate to your organization or a project in it.
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Click **Users**.
4.  For the user you want to remove, click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
5.  For the project you want to remove them from, click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
6.  Click **Remove from project**.
7.  Click **Yes**.

To apply SSH access changes after changing a user\'s permissions for an
environment type, \[trigger a
redeploy\](../development/troubleshoot.md#force-a-redeploy). \## Manage
organization access All users who are added to any project within an
organization become members of that organization. By default, such users
have no \[organization permissions\](#organization-permissions). You can
also have organization users who aren\'t part of any projects. Users who
are a part of an organization with the \*\*List projects\*\* permission
can see all projects in that organization at the organization\'s URL,
which takes the form \`https://console.upsun.com/ORGANIZATION_NAME\`.
They can only access projects they\'ve been explicitly invited to. For
more information on project access control, see how to \[manage project
users\](#manage-project-users). \### Organization permissions

**Feature Availability**

This feature is available as part of the Standard User Management
add-on. To enable it on your organization, administer your
organization's billing.

As an organization owner or an organization user with the \*\*Manage
users\*\* permission, you can invite other users to your organization
and grant them the following permissions: - \*\*Manage billing\*\*
(\`billing\`): Add, remove, and edit billing information. Access
invoices and vouchers. Users with this permission receive monthly
invoices by email. - \*\*Manage plans\*\* (\`plans\`): Access to update
settings of existing projects in an organization. - \*\*Manage users\*\*
(\`members\`): Add, remove, and edit organization-level users and
permissions, except their own. Users with this permission can\'t grant
other users permissions that they themselves don\'t have. - \*\*Create
projects\*\* (\`projects:create\`): Create new projects within the
organization. - \*\*List projects\*\* (\`projects:list\`): See all
projects in an organization, even those the user can\'t access.

### Note

Users with the **Manage users** (`members`) permission can add, edit, or
remove *any* user's permissions except their own.

Users with the **Manage billing** (`billing`) permission automatically
are granted **List projects** (`projects:list`) permission. That is,
they are able to see all organization projects once given billing
rights.

Users without any of these permissions can only access \[projects where
they\'re users\](#project-roles). They can\'t access or manage the rest
of the organization. Organization owners have all permissions within
their organization. Their permission level can\'t be edited.
Organization owners can\'t be removed from their organization, except
through an \[ownership
transfer\](../administration/organizations.md#transfer-project-ownership).
\### Add a user to an organization

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   Using the Console

To invite a user to your organization, run the following command:

`upsun organization:user:add EMAIL_ADDRESS --org ORGANIZATION_NAME --permission PERMISSIONS`

For example, to invite `alice@example.com` to the `acme` organization
with the **Manage billing** and **Create projects** permissions, run the
following command:

`upsun organization:user:add alice@example.com --org acme --permission billing,projects:create`

1.  Navigate to the organization you want to manage (or a project in
    it).
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Click **Users**.
4.  Click **+ Invite users**.
5.  Enter the users' email addresses separated by commas.
6.  Select which organization-wide permissions they should have.
7.  Click **Invite**.

All users you invite receive an invitation email with instructions. \###
Manage organization users

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   Using the Console

To update permissions for a user in your organization, run the following
command:

`upsun organization:user:update EMAIL_ADDRESS --org ORGANIZATION_NAME --permission PERMISSIONS`

For example, to update the permissions for `alice@example.com` in your
`acme` organization so that she has only the **Manage billing**
permission, run the following command:

`upsun organization:user:update alice@example.com --org acme --permission billing`

1.  Navigate to the organization you want to manage (or a project in
    it).
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Click **Users**.
4.  Next to the user you want to manage, click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
5.  Click **Edit user**.

You see all the projects the user is a part of and their permissions in
those projects. You also see their permissions across the organization.

To edit their organization permissions, follow these steps:

1.  Select or clear the checkboxes for the relevant permissions.
2.  Click **Save**.
3.  Click **Yes**.

\### Remove a user from an organization

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   Using the Console

To update remove a user from your organization, run the following
command:

`upsun organization:user:delete EMAIL_ADDRESS --org ORGANIZATION_NAME`

For example, to remove `alice@example.com` from your `acme`
organization, run the following command:

`upsun organization:user:delete alice@example.com --org acme`

1.  Navigate to the organization you want to manage (or a project in
    it).
2.  Open the user menu (your name or profile picture).
3.  Click **Users**.
4.  Next to the user you want to remove, click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More**.
5.  Click **Remove from organization**.

To delete users in bulk, select the users to remove and click **Remove
users from organization**.

Remove a user from an organization will remove them from all projects
they were a member of. #Administer your billing The
\[Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md) is where you can keep your
billing details up to date and redeem your vouchers. \## Manage your
billing details To add or edit billing details for your organization,
follow these steps: 1. Navigate to your organization. 2. Open the user
menu (your name or profile picture). 3. Click \*\*Billing\*\*. 4. Open
the \*\*Billing details\*\* tab. 5. Add or update your billing details
and click \*\*Save\*\*. 6. Add or update your payment method and click
\*\*Submit\*\*. \## Redeem a voucher To redeem a voucher, follow these
steps: 1. Navigate to your organization. 2. Open the user menu (your
name or profile picture). 3. Click \*\*Billing\*\*. 4. Open the
\*\*Vouchers\*\* tab. 5. Enter your voucher code. 6. Click
\*\*Redeem\*\*. #Authenticate the CLI using an API token You need to set
up an API token to authenticate the Upsun CLI for any of the following
tasks: - Running automated tasks on a CI system - Running automated
tasks directly on app container, for example in a cron job \## Before
you begin You might need the \[Upsun CLI\](../cli/\_index.md) to perform
certain tasks. For example, you need the CLI to do the following: -
\[Check the validity of an API
token\](#optional-check-the-validity-of-your-api-token). - \[Load the
CLI SSH certificate for non-CLI
commands\](#use-the-cli-ssh-certificate-for-non-cli-commands). \## 1.
Create a machine user To safely run automated tasks, first create
machine users. Each machine user has its own Upsun account associated
with a unique email address. You can grant them restrictive \[access
permissions\](../users.md) to handle specific automated tasks. For
security purposes, create a machine user for each type of task you want
to automate. To create a machine user, follow these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

1.  Run the following command using your machine user's email address.

    `upsun user:add EMAIL_ADDRESS --role viewer --role development:contributor`

    This sets your machine user as a viewer on your project and a
    contributor on development environments, with no access to other
    environment types. Note that you can further [adjust user
    roles](/administration/users.html#environment-type-roles) depending
    on your needs and each environment type.

2.  In the email invitation, click **Create account**.

3.  To create a Upsun account for the machine user, click **Sign up**
    and follow the instructions.

<!-- -->

1.  Go to your project and click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
2.  In the **Project Settings** menu, click **Access**.
3.  Click **Add**.
4.  Enter your machine user's email address.
5.  For each [environment
    type](/administration/users.html#environment-type-roles), assign a
    role to your machine user and click **Save**.

\## 2. Create an API token 1. Log in to the Console as your machine
user. 2. Open the user menu (your name or profile picture). 3. Click
\*\*My profile\*\*. 4. Go to the \*\*API tokens\*\* tab and click
\*\*Create API token\*\*. 5. Enter a name for your API token and click
\*\*Create API token\*\*. 6. To copy the API token to your clipboard,
click
\*\*![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
Copy\*\*. Note that after you close the \*\*API tokens\*\* tab, you
can\'t display the API token again. 7. Store the API token somewhere
secure on your computer. \### Optional: check the validity of your API
token To check that your API token is valid, run the following command:
\`\`\`bash upsun auth:api-token-login \`\`\` When prompted, enter your
API token. You get output similar to this: \`\`\`bash The API token is
valid. You are logged in. \`\`\` For security reasons, rotate your API
tokens regularly. When an API token is compromised, revoke it
immediately. \## 3. Authenticate the CLI using your API token After you
create your API token, you can use it to do the following: - Allow a CI
system to run automated tasks using the Upsun CLI. - Run automated tasks
on an app container using the Upsun CLI, for example in a cron job. Note
that when running CLI commands in these cases, some operations might
take time to complete. To avoid waiting for an operation to complete
before moving on to the next one, use the \`\--no-wait\` flag. \###
Authenticate in a CI system You can allow your CI system to run
automated tasks using the Upsun CLI. To do so, create an environment
variable named \`UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN\` with your API token as its value. For
more information, see your CI system\'s official documentation. To run
SSH-based commands that aren\'t specific to the Upsun CLI, see how to
\[load the proper SSH
certificate\](#use-the-cli-ssh-certificate-for-non-cli-commands). \###
Authenticate in an environment You can run automated tasks on an app
container using the Upsun CLI. To do so, set your API token as a
\[top-level environment
variable\](../../development/variables/\_index.md#top-level-environment-variables).

### Note

Once you add the token as an environment variable, anyone with SSH
access can read its value. Make sure your [machine user has only the
necessary permissions](#1-create-a-machine-user).

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following command:

`upsun variable:create \ -e ENVIRONMENT_NAME \ --level environment \ --prefix 'env' \ --name UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN \ --sensitive true \ --value 'API_TOKEN' \ --inheritable false \ --visible-build true \ --no-interaction`

1.  Open the environment where you want to add the variable.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
3.  Click **Variables**.
4.  Click **+ Add variable**.
5.  In the **Variable name** field, enter `env:UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN`.
6.  In the **Value** field, enter your API token.
7.  Make sure the **Available at runtime** and **Sensitive variable**
    options are selected.
8.  Click **Add variable**.

Then add a build hook to your app configuration to install the CLI as
part of the build process. \`\`\`yaml {} hooks: build: \| set -e echo
\"Installing Upsun CLI\" curl -fsSL
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/cli/main/installer.sh \|
bash echo \"Testing Upsun CLI\" upsun \`\`\` You can now call the CLI
from within the shell on the app container or in a cron job. To run
SSH-based commands that aren\'t specific to the Upsun CLI, see how to
\[load the proper SSH
certificate\](#use-the-cli-ssh-certificate-for-non-cli-commands). You
can set up a cron job on a specific type of environment. For example, to
run the \`update\` source operation on your production environment, use
the following cron job: \`\`\`yaml crons: update: spec: \'0 0 \* \* \*\'
commands: start: \| if \[ \"\$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\" = production
\]; then upsun backup:create \--yes \--no-wait upsun
source-operation:run update \--no-wait \--yes fi \`\`\` \## Use the CLI
SSH certificate for non-CLI commands When you set a \`UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN\`
environment variable, the CLI authentication isn\'t complete until your
run a CLI command or load the CLI SSH certificate. For example, after
setting a \`UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN\` environment variable, you might need to
run \`ssh\`, \`git\`, \`rsync\`, or \`scp\` commands before you run any
CLI commands. In this case, to ensure all your commands work, load the
CLI SSH certificate first. To do so, run the following command:
\`\`\`bash upsun ssh-cert:load \--no-interaction \`\`\` #Automate your
code updates Upsun allows you to update your dependencies through
\[source operations\](/create-apps/source-operations.md). \## Before you
start You need: - The \[Upsun CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md) - An
\[API token\](/administration/cli/api-tokens.md#2-create-an-api-token)
\## 1. Define a source operation to update your dependencies To
facilitate updating your dependencies in your project, define a source
operation in your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file depending on your
dependency manager:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Composer
-   npm
-   Yarn
-   Go
-   Pipenv
-   Bundler

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" source: operations: update: command: | set -e composer update git add composer.lock git add -A git diff-index --quiet HEAD || git commit --allow-empty -m "Update Composer dependencies" `
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" source: operations: update: command: | set -e npm update git add package.json package-lock.json git add -A git diff-index --quiet HEAD || git commit --allow-empty -m "Update npm dependencies" `
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" source: operations: update: command: | set -e yarn upgrade git add yarn.lock git add -A git diff-index --quiet HEAD || git commit --allow-empty -m "Update yarn dependencies" `
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" source: operations: update: command: | set -e go get -u go mod tidy git add go.mod go.sum git add -A git diff-index --quiet HEAD || git commit --allow-empty -m "Update Go dependencies" `
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" source: operations: update: command: | set -e pipenv update git add Pipfile Pipfile.lock git add -A git diff-index --quiet HEAD || git commit --allow-empty -m "Update Python dependencies" `
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" source: operations: update: command: | set -e bundle update --all git add Gemfile Gemfile.lock git add -A git diff-index --quiet HEAD || git commit --allow-empty -m "Update Ruby dependencies" `
\## 2. Automate your dependency updates with a cron job After you\'ve
defined a source operation to \[update your dependencies on your
project\](#1-define-a-source-operation-to-update-your-dependencies), you
can automate it using a cron job. Note that it's best not to run source
operations on your production environment, but rather on a dedicated
environment where you can test changes. Make sure you have the \[Upsun
CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md) installed and \[an API
token\](/administration/cli/api-tokens.md#2-create-an-api-token) so you
can run a cron job in your app container. 1. Set your API token as a
top-level environment variable:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   From the CLI
-   From the Console

Run the following command:

`upsun variable:create --environment main --level environment --prefix 'env' --name UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN --sensitive true --value 'YOUR_UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN' --inheritable false --visible-build true --json false --enabled true --visible-runtime true`

1.  Open the environment where you want to add the variable.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
3.  Click **Variables**.
4.  Click **+ Add variable**.
5.  In the **Variable name** field, enter `env:UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN`.
6.  In the **Value** field, enter your API token.
7.  Make sure the **Available at runtime** and **Sensitive variable**
    options are selected.
8.  Click **Add variable**.

### Note

Once you add the API token as an environment variable, anyone with SSH
access can read its value. Make sure you carefully check your [user
access on this
project](/administration/users.html#manage-project-users).

2\. Add a build hook to your app configuration to install the CLI as
part of the build process: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: hooks:
build: \| set -e echo \"Installing Upsun CLI\" curl -fsSL
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/cli/main/installer.sh \|
bash echo \"Testing Upsun CLI\" upsun \`\`\` 3. Then, to configure a
cron job to automatically update your dependencies once a day, use a
configuration similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: \# \... crons: update: \# Run the code below every day at
midnight. spec: \'0 0 \* \* \*\' commands: start: \| set -e upsun sync
-e development code data \--no-wait \--yes upsun source-operation:run
update \--no-wait \--yes \`\`\` The example above synchronizes the
\`development\` environment with its parent and then runs the \`update\`
source operation defined
\[previously\](#1-define-a-source-operation-to-update-your-dependencies).
\## 3. Configure notifications about dependency updates To get notified
every time a source operation is triggered and therefore every time a
dependency is updated, you can configure activity scripts or webhooks.
\### Notifications through an activity script After you\'ve defined a
source operation to \[update your dependencies on your
project\](#1-define-a-source-operation-to-update-your-dependencies), you
can configure an activity script to receive notifications every time a
dependency update is triggered.

### Example

You want to get notified of every dependency update through a message
posted on a Slack channel. To do so, follow these steps:

1.  In your Slack administrative interface, create a new Slack webhook.
    You get a URL starting with `https://hooks.slack.com/`.

2.  Replace `SLACK_URL` in the following `.js` script with your webhook
    URL.

3.  Add the following code to a `.js` file:

    `/** * Sends a color-coded formatted message to Slack. * * To control what events trigger it, use the --events switch in * the Upsun CLI. * * Replace SLACK_URL in the following script with your Slack webhook URL. * Get one here: https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks * You should get something like: const url = 'https://hooks.slack.com/...'; * * activity.text: a brief, one-line statement of what happened. * activity.log: the complete build and deploy log output, as it would be seen in the Console log screen. */ function sendSlackMessage(title, message) { const url = 'SLACK_URL'; const messageTitle = title; const color = activity.result === "success" ? "#66c000" : "#ff0000"; const body = { attachments: [ { title: messageTitle, text: message, color: color, }, ], }; const resp = fetch(url, { method: "POST", headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json", }, body: JSON.stringify(body), }); if (!resp.ok) { console.log("Sending slack message failed: " + resp.body.text()); } } sendSlackMessage(activity.text, activity.log);`

4.  Run the following Upsun CLI command:

    `upsun integration:add --type script --file ./my_script.js --events=environment.source-operation`

    Optional: to only get notifications about specific environments, add
    the following flag to the command:
    `--environments=your_environment_name`.

Anytime a dependency is updated via a source operation, the activity
script now reports it to Slack.

\### Notifications through a webhook After you\'ve defined a source
operation to \[update your dependencies on your
project\](#1-define-a-source-operation-to-update-your-dependencies), you
can configure a webhook to receive notifications every time a dependency
update is triggered. \[Webhooks\](/integrations/activity/webhooks.md)
allow you to host a script yourself externally. This script receives the
same payload as an activity script and responds to the same events, but
can be hosted on your own server and in your own language. To configure
the integration between your webhook and your source operation, run the
following \[Upsun CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md) command:
\`\`\`bash upsun integration:add \--type=webhook
\--url=URL_TO_RECEIVE_JSON \--events=environment.source-operation \`\`\`
Optional: to only get notifications about specific environments, add the
following flag to the command:
\`\--environments=your_environment_name\`. To test the integration and
the JSON response, you can generate a URL from a service such as
\[webhook.site\](https://webhook.site) and use the generated URL as
\`URL_TO_RECEIVE_JSON\`. This URL then receives the JSON response when a
source operation is triggered. Anytime a dependency is updated via a
source operation, the webhook now receives a POST message. This POST
message contains complete information about the entire state of the
project at that time. #Configure a project Each project has settings
that apply to everything within that project, including all its
environments. You can only see and update settings for projects where
you are a \[Project Admin\](../users.md). To access the settings, click
![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
\*\*Settings\*\* from the main project page. The settings are divided
into several sections. \## General The \*\*General\*\* section shows you
the project\'s region and allows you to update the project name and
\[timezone\](../../projects/change-project-timezone.md). \![configure
project\](/images/console/settings-general.png \"1.0\") \## Access The
\*\*Access\*\* section allows you to \[manage user access to the
project\](../users.md). \![Project configure
icon\](/images/console/settings-access-users.png \"0.7\") \##
Certificates The \*\*Certificates\*\* section shows a list of your
project\'s TLS certificates. To see details about a certificate or
delete one, click \*\*Edit
![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)\*\*.
See how to \[add custom certificates\](../../domains/steps/tls.md). \![A
list of certificates in a
project\](/images/management-console/settings-certificates.png \"0.7\")
\## Domains The \*\*Domains\*\* section allows you to manage the domains
where your project is accessible. See how to \[set up your
domain\](../../domains/steps/\_index.md). \![project
domain\](/images/management-console/settings-domains.png \"0.7\") \##
Deploy Key The \*\*Deploy Key\*\* section shows you the public SSH key
you can add to your private repositories. Adding it lets Upsun access
the repositories during the build process. This is useful if you want to
reuse some code components across multiple projects and manage those
components as dependencies of your project. \![Project deploy
key\](/images/management-console/settings-deploy-key.png \"0.7\") \##
Integrations The \*\*Integrations\*\* section allows you to manage all
of your \[integrations\](../../integrations/\_index.md).
\![Integrations\](/images/management-console/settings-integrations.png
\"0.7\") \## Variables The \*\*Variables\*\* section allows you to
manage all project-wide
\[variables\](../../development/variables/\_index.md). \![Project
variables\](/images/management-console/settings-variables-project.png
\"0.7\") #Debugging

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

Effectively debugging web apps takes effort, especially when an HTTP
request goes through multiple layers before reaching your web app.
Follow the steps below to debug a specific app. You can choose to debug
in an environment deployed to Upsun or with your app running locally but
connected to deployed services. In either case, make sure to debug in a
preview environment. For more general information, see how to
\[troubleshoot development\](/development/troubleshoot). \## 1. Create a
new environment Start by creating a new environment completely isolated
from production but with the same data for debugging: \`\`\`bash upsun
branch debug-branch \`\`\` \## 2. Get access

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Remote
-   Local

Access your app container via SSH:

`upsun ssh`

To access deployed apps and services, open tunnels to everything your
app has relationships with:

`upsun tunnel:open`

In the same terminal, set the relevant environment variables:

`export PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS="$(upsun tunnel:info --encode)" export PORT=8888`
\## 3. Run your app in inspect mode

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Remote
-   Local

Stop the current process and restart it in inspect mode:

`sv stop app node --inspect <START_FILE>`

In the same terminal as the previous step, run the following command:

`node --inspect <START_FILE>` Replace \`\` with the file defined for
\[your app\'s \`start\` command\](./\_index.md#4-start-your-app). You
get output something like this: \`\`\`bash Debugger listening on
ws://127.0.0.1:9229/10701e5d-d627-4180-a967-d47a924c93c0 For help, see:
https://nodejs.org/en/docs/inspector Listening on port 8888 \`\`\` \##
4. (If debugging remotely) Forward the debugger port locally In another
terminal, create an SSH tunnel that forwards to the 9229 port:
\`\`\`bash ssh -N -L 9229:localhost:9229 \$(upsun ssh \--pipe) \`\`\`
\## 5. Connect the debugger You can now connect the debugger as if you
were debugging a local application. See examples with some common tools:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using Chrome developer tools
-   Using Visual Studio Code

Go to `chrome://inspect`. Find your running app under the
`Remote Target` list. Click **inspect** to start the debugger.

Use the `Node.js: Attach` debugger option.

If you haven't created the option:

1.  On the **Run and Debug** tab, click `create a launch.json file`.
2.  Select `Node.js` as the environment.
3.  In the `configurations` array, start IntelliSense (usually
    [ctrl]{.kbd}+[space]{.kbd}).
4.  Select `Node.js: Attach`.
5.  Make sure the port is the same as in [step 4
    above](#4-if-debugging-remotely-forward-the-debugger-port-locally).

Once you have the option:

In the **Run and Debug** tab, select `Attach` from the menu and click
**Start Debugging** (the green arrow).

See more on Node.js debugging in Visual Studio Code.

Now when you load the site at your deployed URL (if debugging remote) or
localhost (if debugging locally), the local debugger you\'ve attached is
called. Set breakpoints:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Remote
-   Local

In the JavaScript files from your remote site: On the **Run and Debug**
tab under **Loaded Scripts** find `Attach: Remote Process` \>
`/app`.Directly in your source files. \## Other issues \### pm2 process
manager blocks other processes If you\'re using the \[\`pm2\` process
manager\](https://github.com/unitech/pm2) to start your app from a
script, you might find it daemonizes itself and blocks other processes
(such as backups) by constantly respawning. This may happen even if you
use the \`\--no-daemon\` flag. Instead of using a script, call \`pm2
start\` directly in your \[\`start\`
command\](./\_index.md#4-start-your-app). #DNS management and apex
domains Using \`CNAME\` records helps \[prevent
downtime\](#cname-records) during maintenance operations. But \`CNAME\`
records can\'t point to apex domains, so you need to \[set up a
workaround\](#workarounds-for-apex-domains). Available workarounds
depend on your DNS provider. \## \`CNAME\` records Each site on Upsun is
made up of a set of containers. To map incoming requests to the
appropriate container, Upsun runs routers in \[each
region\](../../development/regions.md). A router\'s IP address can
change in two cases: - During an upgrade or maintenance operation,
routers can be taken offline while changes are applied. - During a
region upscale or downscale, routers can be added or removed. In such
situations, using \`A\` records can cause downtime. \`A\` records map a
domain to an IP address. When a router\'s IP address changes, you need
to manually update your \`A\` records. Your site remains offline until
you do, or until the router is back from maintenance. To prevent
downtime, create \`CNAME\` records through your DNS provider. \`CNAME\`
records map a domain to another. Set up your \`CNAME\` records to point
at your project\'s \[target
URL\](../../domains/steps/\_index.md#1-get-the-target-for-your-project).
The DNS record for this target URL automatically resolves to the IP
addresses of the routers in your project\'s region. When a router\'s IP
address changes, the DNS record is automatically and immediately
updated. This prevents downtime without intervention from you. Note that
\`CNAME\` records can\'t point to \[apex
domains\](/glossary.md#apex-domain). Check with your DNS provider if
they offer \[workarounds\](#workarounds-for-apex-domains). \##
Workarounds for apex domains Although \`CNAME\` records can\'t point to
apex domains, most DNS providers offer workarounds. Contact your DNS
provider and choose the option that works for you. If you use a CDN, you
likely already have a workaround in place, such as with
\[Fastly\](../cdn/fastly.md#3-handle-apex-domains) and
\[Cloudflare\](../cdn/cloudflare.md#3-handle-apex-domains). \### Custom
records Some DNS providers offer custom records such as \`ANAME\`,
\`ALIAS\` or \`HTTPS\` records, which you can manage like \`CNAME\`
records. But unlike \`CNAME\` records, these custom records can point to
apex domains. To use custom records, follow the instructions on \[how to
set up a custom domain\](./\_index.md). When you come to configuring
your DNS provider, instead of a \`CNAME\` record, add a custom record
pointing from your domain to \[your project\'s target
URL\](https://docs.platform.sh/domains/steps.html#2-get-the-target-for-your-project).
\### Domain forwarding If your DNS provider doesn\'t support custom
records, consider using domain forwarding. If your domain is
\`example.com\`, domain forwarding redirects all requests from
\`example.com\` to \`www.example.com\`. To use domain forwarding, follow
these steps: 1. Make the \`www.\` version of your site the default
(canonical) version and configure your app and routes to \[use the
\`www\` subdomain as \`upstream\`\](../../define-routes/\_index.md). 2.
Follow the instructions on \[how to set up a custom
domain\](./\_index.md). When you come to configuring your DNS provider,
instead of a \`CNAME\` record, add a record forwarding requests from
\`YOUR_DOMAIN\` to \`www.YOUR_DOMAIN\`. \### Redirection service If your
DNS provider doesn\'t support custom records or domain forwarding,
consider using a redirection service. If your domain is \`example.com\`,
a redirection service uses an \`A\` record to redirect all requests from
\`example.com\` to \`www.example.com\`. To use a redirection service,
follow these steps: 1. Make the \`www.\` version of your site the
default (canonical) version and configure your app and routes to \[use
the \`www\` subdomain as \`upstream\`\](../../define-routes/\_index.md).
2. Follow the instructions on \[how to set up a custom
domain\](./\_index.md). When you come to configuring your DNS provider,
instead of a \`CNAME\` record, add an \`A\` record pointing from your
domain to the redirection service. \### \`A\` records If your DNS
provider doesn\'t support any other workaround, consider using \`A\`
records, but only as a last resort. When you use \`A\` records, \[if a
router\'s IP address changes\](#cname-records), you need to update your
\`A\` records manually. Until you do, your site can appear offline
because requests are lost. To use \`A\` records, follow these steps: 1.
\[Get the IP addresses\](/development/regions.md#public-ip-addresses) of
your project\'s production environment. 2. Follow the instructions on
\[how to set up a custom domain\](./\_index.md). When you come to
configuring your DNS provider, instead of a \`CNAME\` record, add \`A\`
records pointing from your domain to each of the IP addresses from
step 1. When a request comes in, one of those IP addresses is used at
random. #Extensions

### Note

You can now use the Upsun composable image (BETA) to install runtimes
and tools in your application container. When using the composable
image, see how you can:

-   [Manage PHP
    extensions](/create-apps/app-reference/composable-image.html#php-extensions-and-python-packages)
-   [Modify your PHP
    runtime](/languages/php.html#modify-your-php-runtime-when-using-the-composable-image)

PHP has a number of \[extensions\](https://pecl.php.net/) developed by
members of the community. Some of them are available for Upsun
containers. You can define the PHP extensions you want to enable or
disable: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' runtime:
extensions: - raphf - http - igbinary - redis disabled_extensions: -
sqlite3 \`\`\` You can also \[include configuration
options\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#extensions)
for specific extensions. The following table shows all extensions that
are available (Avail) and on by default (Def). You can turn on the
available ones with the \`extensions\` key and turn off those on by
default with the \`disabled_extensions\` key. (Extensions marked with
\`\*\` are built in and can\'t be turned off.)

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Extension           5.4     5.5     5.6     7.0     7.1     7.2     7.3     7.4     8.0      8.1      8.2      8.3      8.4
  ------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------
  `amqp`                                      Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `apc`               Avail                                                                                               

  `apcu`              Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `apcu_bc`                                   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail                                       

  `applepay`                                  Avail   Avail           Avail   Avail                                       

  `bcmath`                                    Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `blackfire`         Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `bz2`                                       Avail   Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `calendar`                                  Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `ctype`                                     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `curl`              Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `datadog`                                                                                             Avail    Avail    

  `dba`                                       Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `dom`                                       Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `enchant`           Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `event`                                             Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `exif`                                      Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `ffi`                                                                       Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `fileinfo`                                  Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `ftp`                                       Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `gd`                Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `gearman`           Avail   Avail   Avail                                                                               

  `geoip`             Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `gettext`                                   Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `gmp`               Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `gnupg`                                                                                               Avail    Avail    

  `http`              Avail   Avail                                   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `iconv`                                     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `igbinary`                                  Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `imagick`           Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    
                                                                                      with\    with\    with\    with\    
                                                                                      `webp`   `webp`   `webp`   `webp`   

  `imap`              Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `interbase`         Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail             

  `intl`              Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `ioncube`                                   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail             

  `json`                              Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     \*       \*       \*       \*       \*

  `ldap`              Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `mailparse`                                 Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `mbstring`                                  Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `mcrypt`            Def     Def     Def     Avail   Avail                                                               

  `memcache`          Avail   Avail   Avail                                                                               

  `memcached`         Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `mongo`             Avail   Avail   Avail                                                                               

  `mongodb`                                   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `msgpack`                           Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `mssql`             Avail   Avail   Avail                                                                               

  `mysql`             Def     Def     Def     Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `mysqli`            Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `mysqlnd`           Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `newrelic`                          Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `oauth`                                     Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `odbc`              Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `opcache`                   Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      

  `openswoole`                                                                                          Avail    Avail    

  `opentelemetry`                                                                                       Avail    Avail    

  `pdo`               Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `pdo_dblib`         Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `pdo_firebird`      Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail                                                               

  `pdo_mysql`         Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `pdo_odbc`          Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `pdo_pgsql`         Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `pdo_sqlite`        Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `pdo_sqlsrv`                                Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `pecl-http`                         Avail                                                                               

  `pgsql`             Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `phar`                                      Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `phpdbg`                            Avail                                                                               

  `pinba`             Avail   Avail   Avail                                                                               

  `posix`                                     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `propro`                            Avail                                                                               

  `protobuf`                                                                                   Avail                      

  `pspell`            Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `pthreads`                                          Avail   Avail                                                       

  `raphf`                             Avail                           Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `rdkafka`                                                                                    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `readline`          Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `recode`            Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail                                               

  `redis`             Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `shmop`                                     Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `simplexml`                                 Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `snmp`              Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `soap`                                      Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `sockets`                                   Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `sodium`                                                    Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `sourceguardian`                            Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `spplus`            Avail   Avail                                                                                       

  `sqlite3`           Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `sqlsrv`                                    Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `ssh2`              Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `swoole`                                                                                              Avail    Avail    

  `sybase`            Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `sysvmsg`                                   Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `sysvsem`                                   Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `sysvshm`                                   Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `tideways`                                  Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail             

  `tideways_xhprof`                           Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail                      

  `tidy`              Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `tokenizer`                                 Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `uuid`                                              Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `wddx`                                      Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail                                       

  `xcache`            Avail   Avail                                                                                       

  `xdebug`            Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `xhprof`            Avail   Avail   Avail                                                                               

  `xml`                                       Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `xmlreader`                                 Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `xmlrpc`            Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `xmlwriter`                                 Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def

  `xsl`               Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail

  `yaml`                                              Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail    Avail    Avail    Avail    

  `zbarcode`                                  Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail                                               

  `zendopcache`       Def     \*      \*      \*      \*      \*      \*      \*      \*       \*       \*       \*       \*

  `zip`                                       Def     Def     Def     Def     Def     Def      Def      Def      Def      Def
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some built-in modules are always on: - \`date\` - \`filter\` -
\`hash\` - \`json\` (from 8.0) - \`libxml\` - \`openssl\` - \`pcntl\` -
\`pcre\` - \`Reflection\` - \`session\` - \`SPL\` - \`standard\` -
\`Zend OPcache\` (from 5.5) - \`zlib\` To see a complete list of the
compiled PHP extensions, run the following \[CLI
command\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md): \`\`\`bash upsun ssh
\"php -m\" \`\`\` \## Custom PHP extensions It\'s possible to use an
extension not listed here, but it takes slightly more work: 1. Download
the \`.so\` file for the extension as part of your build hook using
\`curl\` or similar. It can also be added to your Git repository if the
file isn\'t publicly downloadable, but committing large binary blobs to
Git is generally not recommended. 2. Load the extension using an
absolute path by \[customizing the PHP
settings\](./\_index.md#customize-php-settings) For example, if the
extension is named \`spiffy.so\` and is in your \[app
root\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#root-directory),
your configuration looks like the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' variables: php: extension: /app/spiffy.so
\`\`\` #HTTP caching You can configure HTTP caching for your site on
Upsun in several ways. Which one you should use depends on your specific
use case. You should use only one of these at a time and disable any
others. Mixing them together most likely results in stale cache that
can\'t be cleared. \## The Upsun router cache Every project includes a
router instance that includes \[optional HTTP
caching\](/define-routes/cache.md). It\'s reasonably configurable and
obeys HTTP cache directives, but doesn\'t support push-based clearing.
If you\'re uncertain what caching tool to use, start with this one.
It\'s enough for most uses. \## A Content Delivery Network (CDN) Upsun
is compatible with most commercial CDNs. CDNs generally offer the best
performance as they\'re the only option that includes multiple
geographic locations. But they do tend to be the most expensive option.
See more on setting up \[Fastly\](/domains/cdn/fastly.md) and
\[Cloudflare\](/domains/cdn/cloudflare.md). The methods for other CDNs
are similar. \## Varnish Upsun offers a \[Varnish
service\](/add-services/varnish.md) that you can insert between the
router and your app. It has roughly the same performance as the router
cache. Varnish is more configurable, but it requires you to be
comfortable with Varnish Configuration Language (VCL). Upsun doesn\'t
help with VCL configuration and a misconfiguration may be difficult to
debug. Varnish supports \[clearing cache with a
push\](/add-services/varnish.md#clear-cache-with-a-push), but access
control is complicated by the inability to have \[circular
relationships\](/add-services/varnish.md#circular-relationships).
Generally speaking, you should use Varnish only if your application
requires push-based clearing or relies on Varnish-specific business
logic. \## App-specific caching Many web apps and frameworks include a
built-in web cache layer that mimics what Varnish or the Router cache
would do. Most of the time they\'re slower than a dedicated caching
service as they still require invoking the app server and only serve as
a fallback for users that don\'t have a dedicated caching service
available. Generally speaking, use app-specific web cache only when it
includes app-specific business logic you depend on, such as
app-sensitive selective cache clearing or partial page caching. Note
that this refers only to HTTP caching. Many apps have an internal app
cache for data objects and similar information. That should remain
active regardless of the HTTP cache in use. \## Cookies and caching
HTTP-based caching systems generally default to including cookie values
in cache keys to avoid serving authenticated content to the wrong user.
While this is a safe default, it means that \*any\* cookie effectively
disables the cache, including mundane cookies like analytics. The
solution is to set which cookies should impact the cache and limit them
to session cookies. For the router cache, see \[cookies in HTTP
caching\](/define-routes/cache.md#cookies). For other cache systems,
consult their documentation. #Manage Node.js versions

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

Each Upsun container image includes a specific language in a specific
version. A set of dependencies is also provided based on that language
version. This ensures that your application container is as small and
efficient as possible. Therefore, by default, when you use a Upsun
container image, you use the Node.js version that\'s included in that
image, if any. If you want to use a different Node.js version, use a
version manager to install it yourself. You can use one of the following
version managers: - \[Use \`n\`\](#use-n) - \[Use \`nvm\`\](#use-nvm)
Both of the recommendations use a \`.nvmrc\` file to specify the desired
Node.js version. You could also specify a different file or use
\[environment variables\](../../development/variables/\_index.md). \##
Use \`n\` The \[\`n\` package\](https://github.com/tj/n) works for
various Unix-like systems, including Windows Subsystem for Linux. 1. Add
the desired Node.js version to your environment using \`.nvmrc\`,
\`.n-node-version\`, \`.node-version\`, or \`package.json\`.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   .nvmrc
-   .n-node-version/.node-version
-   package.json

Create a `.nvmrc` file in [your app
root](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#root-directory):

.nvmrc `v16.13.2`

Create a `.n-node-version` or `.node-version` file in [your app
root](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#root-directory):

.n-node-version or .node-version `16.13.2`

Add an `engines.node` property to your `package.json`. This property
accepts either an exact version or a range:

package.json `{ "engines": { "node": ">=0.10.3 <15" } }` 2. Add it as a
dependency: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must
be unique within the project. myapp: type: \'python:3.9\' dependencies:
nodejs: n: \"\*\" \`\`\` Adding it as a dependency ensures it\'s cached
for future builds. 3. Set the location of the \`n\` files using the
\`N_PREFIX\` environment variable: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The
app\'s name, which must be unique within the project. myapp: type:
\'python:3.9\' dependencies: nodejs: n: \"\*\" variables: env: N_PREFIX:
/app/.global \`\`\` 4. Install the specified version of Node.js in a
\[\`build\`
hook\](../../create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#build-hook):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique
within the project. myapp: type: \'python:3.9\' dependencies: nodejs: n:
\"\*\" variables: env: N_PREFIX: /app/.global hooks: build: \| \# Exit
the hook on any failure set -e \# Install the version specified in the
.nvmrc file n auto \# Reset the location hash to recognize the newly
installed version hash -r \`\`\` Now your hooks should be able to use
the specified version of Node.js. You can verify this by running \`node
-v\`. Your final app configuration should look something like this:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique
within the project. myapp: type: \'python:3.9\' dependencies: nodejs: n:
\"\*\" variables: env: N_PREFIX: /app/.global hooks: build: \| \# Exit
the hook on any failure set -e \# Install the version specified in the
.nvmrc file n auto \# Reset the location hash to recognize the newly
installed version hash -r \`\`\` \## Use \`nvm\` \[Node Version Manager
(\`nvm\`)\](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) is a bash script for managing
Node.js versions. You can use it to: - Make a specific version available
in the build and optionally the runtime container. - Control the
specific versions to be installed with \[environment
variables\](../../development/variables/\_index.md), meaning you can
also have different versions in different environments. To use \`nvm\`,
follow these steps: 1. Define which \`nvm\` version to use using an
\[environment variable\](../../development/variables/\_index.md). Add it
to your \[app configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md): \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the
project. myapp: type: \'python:3.9\' variables: env: \# Update for your
desired NVM version. NVM_VERSION: v0.39.3 \`\`\` 2. Define your desired
Node.js version using an environment variable. For your base version,
set it in your app configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The
app\'s name, which must be unique within the project. myapp: type:
\'python:3.9\' variables: env: \# Update these for your desired NVM and
Node versions. NVM_VERSION: v0.39.3 NODE_VERSION: v18.14.2 \`\`\` To get
different versions in different environments, \[set environment-specific
variables\](../../development/variables/set-variables.md#create-environment-specific-variables).
3. Add a \`.nvm\` directory to your cache in your \[build
hook\](../../create-apps/hooks/\_index.md): \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
\# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the project. myapp:
type: \'python:3.9\' variables: env: \# Update these for your desired
NVM and Node versions. NVM_VERSION: v0.39.3 NODE_VERSION: v18.14.2
hooks: build: \| set -e unset NPM_CONFIG_PREFIX export
NVM_DIR=\"\$PLATFORM_APP_DIR/.nvm\" \# Link cache with app if \[ ! -d
\"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.nvm\" \]; then mkdir -p
\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.nvm fi ln -s \$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.nvm \$NVM_DIR
\`\`\`

### Note

Instead of using a symlink between your cache and application
directories, you might need to copy the content of
`$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.nvm` into `$PLATFORM_APP_DIR/.nvm` manually. To do
so, run the following command:

`rsync -av $PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.nvm $PLATFORM_APP_DIR`

4\. Use the cache directory and install based on the variables if not
present: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be
unique within the project. myapp: type: \'python:3.9\' variables: env:
\# Update these for your desired NVM and Node versions. NVM_VERSION:
v0.39.3 NODE_VERSION: v18.14.2 hooks: build: \| \... \# Check for
Node.js version and install if not present if \[ ! -d
\"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.nvm/versions/node/\$NODE_VERSION\" \]; then \#
Get nvm install script if correct version not present export
NVM_INSTALL_FILE=\"\${PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR}/nvm\_\${NVM_VERSION}\_install.sh\"
if \[ ! -f \"\$NVM_INSTALL_FILE\" \]; then wget -nc -O
\"\$NVM_INSTALL_FILE\"
\"https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/\$NVM_VERSION/install.sh\"
fi \# Install, automatically using NODE_VERSION bash \$NVM_INSTALL_FILE
fi \# Activate nvm \[ -s \"\$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh\" \] && \\.
\"\$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh\" \# Use the specified version nvm use
\"\$NODE_VERSION\" \`\`\` 5. Optional: To use the specified Node.js
version in the runtime container and not just the build, activate
\`nvm\` via
\[script\](../../development/variables/set-variables.md#set-variables-via-script):
\`\`\`bash {} unset NPM_CONFIG_PREFIX export
NVM_DIR=\"\$PLATFORM_APP_DIR/.nvm\" \[ -s \"\$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh\" \] && \\.
\"\$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh\" \`\`\` Your final app configuration should look
something like the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s
name, which must be unique within the project. myapp: type:
\'python:3.9\' variables: env: \# Update these for your desired NVM and
Node versions. NVM_VERSION: v0.39.3 NODE_VERSION: v18.14.2 hooks: build:
\| set -e unset NPM_CONFIG_PREFIX export
NVM_DIR=\"\$PLATFORM_APP_DIR/.nvm\" \# Link cache with app if \[ ! -d
\"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.nvm\" \]; then mkdir -p
\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.nvm fi ln -s \$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.nvm \$NVM_DIR
\# Check for Node.js version and install if not present if \[ ! -d
\"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.nvm/versions/node/\$NODE_VERSION\" \]; then \#
Get nvm install script if correct version not present export
NVM_INSTALL_FILE=\"\${PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR}/nvm\_\${NVM_VERSION}\_install.sh\"
if \[ ! -f \"\$NVM_INSTALL_FILE\" \]; then wget -nc -O
\"\$NVM_INSTALL_FILE\"
\"https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/\$NVM_VERSION/install.sh\"
fi \# Install, automatically using NODE_VERSION bash \$NVM_INSTALL_FILE
fi \# Activate nvm \[ -s \"\$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh\" \] && \\.
\"\$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh\" \# Use the specified version nvm use
\"\$NODE_VERSION\" \`\`\` #Philosophy Upsun aims at reducing
configuration and making developers more productive. It abstracts your
project infrastructure and manages it for you, so you never have to
configure services like a web server, a MySQL database, or a Redis cache
from scratch again. Upsun is built on one main idea --- your server
infrastructure is part of your app, so it should be version controlled
along with your app. Every branch you push to your Git repository can
come with bug fixes, new features, \*\*and\*\* infrastructure changes.
You can then test everything as an independent deployment, including
your application code and all of your services with a copy of their data
(database entries, search index, user files, etc.). This allows you to
preview exactly what your site would look like if you merged your
changes to production. \## The basics On Upsun, a \*\*project\*\* is
linked to a Git repository and is composed of one or more \*\*apps\*\*.
An app is a directory in your Git repository with a specific Upsun
configuration and dedicated HTTP endpoints (via the
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file). Projects are deployed in
\*\*environments\*\*. An environment is a standalone copy of your live
app which can be used for testing, Q&A, implementing new features,
fixing bugs, and so on. Every project you deploy on Upsun is built as a
\*virtual cluster\* containing a series of containers. The main branch
of your Git repository is always deployed as a production cluster. Any
other branch can be deployed as a staging or development cluster. There
are three types of containers within your cluster, all usually
configured from a single \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file stored alongside
your code: - The \[\*router\*\](/define-routes/\_index.md) is a single
Nginx process responsible for mapping incoming requests to an app
container, and for optionally providing HTTP caching. - One or more
\[\*apps\*\](/create-apps/\_index.md) holding the code of your
project. - Some optional \[\*services\*\](/add-services/\_index.md) like
MySQL/MariaDB, Elasticsearch, Redis, or RabbitMQ. They come as optimized
pre-built images. \## The workflow Every time you deploy a branch to
Upsun, the code is \*built\* and then \*deployed\* on a new cluster. The
\[\*\*build\*\* process\](/learn/overview/build-deploy.md#build-steps)
looks through the configuration files in your repository and assembles
the necessary containers. The \[\*\*deploy\*\*
process\](/learn/overview/build-deploy.md#deploy-steps) makes those
containers live, replacing the previous versions, with no service
downtime. Depending on your needs, you can also \[set up a
\*\*post-deploy\*\* hook\](#add-a-post-deploy-hook) to run after your
app is deployed and your application container starts accepting traffic.
Adding a \[\`post-deploy\`
hook\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#post-deploy-hook) can be
useful to run updates that don\'t require exclusive database access.
Note that if you\'re using Gatsby to pull from a backend container on
the same environment, you need a \`post-deploy\` hook to successfully
build and deploy your app. \### How your app is built During the \[build
step\](/learn/overview/build-deploy.md#build-steps), dependencies
specified in \`.upsun/config.yaml\` are installed on application
containers. You can also customize the build step by providing a
\[\`build\` hook\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#build-hook)
composed of one or more shell commands that help create your production
codebase. That could be compiling TypeScript files, running some
scripts, rearranging files on disk, or whatever else you want. Note that
at this point all you have access to is the filesystem; there are \*\*no
services or other databases available\*\*. Your live website is
unaffected. Once the build step is completed, the filesystem is frozen
and a read-only container image is created. That filesystem is the final
build artifact. \### How your app is deployed Before starting the
\[deployment\](./build-deploy.md#deploy-steps) of your app, Upsun pauses
all incoming requests and holds them to avoid downtime. Then, the
current containers are stopped and the new ones are started. Upsun then
opens networking connections between the various containers, as
specified in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`. The connection information for each
service is available from the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables),
or the \[\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md). Similar to the
build step, you can define a \[deploy
hook\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#deploy-hook) to prepare
your app. Your app has complete access to all services, but the
filesystem where your code lives is now read-only. Finally, Upsun opens
the floodgates and lets incoming requests through your newly deployed
app. \### Add a post-deploy hook You can add a \[\`post-deploy\`
hook\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#post-deploy-hook) to be
run after the build and deploy steps. Similar to the \[\`deploy\`
hook\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#deploy-hook), the
\`post-deploy\` hook only runs once your application container accepts
requests. So you can use it to run updates such as content imports or
cache warmups that can be executed simultaneously with normal traffic.
During a redeploy, the \`post-deploy\` hook is the only hook that is
run. \## Get support If you\'re facing an issue with Upsun, open a
\[support ticket\](/learn/overview/get-support). \## What\'s next? To
get a feeling of what working with Upsun entails, see the \[Get
Started\](/get-started/\_index.md) framework guides. #Pricing Upsun
offers flexible, usage-based \[pricing\](https://upsun.com/pricing/) for
organizations and projects.

### Note

This page is meant to provide some context for how the pricing model
relates to technical work on Upsun. It is *not* meant to be your primary
resource for the exact costs of certain features.

The official Upsun Pricing page should always be considered the primary
source of pricing details.

In general, there are four main dimensions that determine the cost of
work on Upsun. \| Pricing dimension \| Details \| \|\-\--\|\-\--\| \|
Project fees \| An individual project on Upsun comes with a consistent
monthly cost. The cost includes all of the orchestration and
provisioning characteristics that define the Upsun PaaS.\
\
It comes with some baseline features and feature limits, such as
infrastructure metrics and a certain number of build minutes. Individual
preview environments do not come with their own associated creation
cost - you are charged only for the resources those preview environments
use during their lifespan (see next row). \| \| \[Project
resources\](/manage-resources.md) \| Deploying on Upsun allows you
fine-grained control over the amount of resources allocated for your
application and service containers. CPU, memory, and disk (including
backup disk) are calculated across each organization, project, and
environment to determine your overall usage for a billing period. \| \|
\[User licenses\](/administration/users.md) \| Each organization user
comes with a license fee. Users can be given different levels of access
to singular projects within an organization, or to multiple projects,
without changing that license fee. There are two exceptions which are
not charged the license fee: Viewers and Viewers who Manage Billing.
There are no limits to the number of users you can have in an
organization.\| \| Feature add-ons \| There are additional features that
can be added to the organization that come with their own cost. Few of
these are available immediately during the Beta phase, but more will be
added. \| A given organization\'s monthly billing is then made up of the
sum of each of these dimensions. You can monitor your spend from the
Console via a \[current month
estimate\](/administration/billing/monitor-billing.html#current-month-estimate)
and a \[next month
estimate\](/administration/billing/monitor-billing.html#next-month-estimate).
You can also \[set billing
alerts\](/administration/billing/monitor-billing.html#manage-billing-alerts)
to receive an email when your current month estimate reaches a defined
threshold. \## Dunning process In instances where a payment has failed,
your organization will be immediately restricted. Upsun will proceed to
make three separate attempts to take the outstanding balance from your
account. These attempts will be made on the 4th, 6th and 11th of the
month. If your payment fails after the third attempt on the 11th, your
organization will be suspended the following day. If you are a new Upsun
customer and your first payment has failed, your projects will be
deleted on the 13th - two days after the final payment attempt. For all
other customers, projects will be deleted 30 days after your
organization is suspended on the 11th. You will be notified 10 days
before this deletion occurs and a payment will be attempted for the last
time. If unsuccessful, all projects on the billing subscription will be
deleted. Be sure to visit the \[Pricing
page\](https://upsun.com/pricing/) for exact details related to Upsun
pricing. #Server Side Includes (SSI) SSI commands enable you to include
files within other pages. At its most basic, you can include files
within other ones so as not to repeat yourself. Start by enabling SSI:
\`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://{default}/\": type: upstream upstream:
\"myapp:http\" ssi: enabled: true \`\`\` Then create a file you want to
include elsewhere: \`\`\`html {}

This content can be reused

\`\`\` And include it in another file: \`\`\`html {}

This content is unique to this page.

\`\`\` And your final rendered page includes the other file: \`\`\`html
{}

This content is unique to this page.

This content can be reused

\`\`\` \## Caching and dynamic content You can use SSI to have
\[caching\](./cache.md) and dynamic content in one. So one file is
cached, while another updates dynamically. For example, you can activate
SSI on one route with cache disabled and enable cache on another route:
\`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://{default}/\": type: upstream upstream:
\"myapp:http\" ssi: enabled: true cache: enabled: false
\"https://{default}/cache\": type: upstream upstream: \"myapp:http\"
cache: enabled: true \`\`\` Then create a page that displays the current
date and time and is cached for 60 seconds (the example uses PHP, but
any server-side language would work): \`\`\`php {}

\`\`\` Then you can visit \`index.php\` and refresh the page a few
times. You see the first number updating to the current time, while the
second (included) one only changes every 60 seconds. For more on SSI,
see the \[nginx
documentation\](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssi_module.html).
#Set up your Fastly CDN You can \[use a CDN\](./\_index.md) to deliver
your site\'s content to users more quickly. To set up a Fastly CDN with
your own Fastly subscription, follow the instructions on this page. \##
Before you begin You need: - An up-and-running Upsun project - A
\[Fastly\](https://www.fastly.com/) CDN subscription \## 1. Avoid
double-caching To avoid stale content that can\'t be cleared, avoid
using Fastly with \[HTTP caching\](/define-routes/cache.md). For routes
where Fastly is used, disable HTTP caching using the following
configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} https://{default}/: type: upstream \...
cache: enabled: false \`\`\` \## 2. Set up your Fastly CDN To properly
configure your Fastly CDN, see the Fastly official documentation on
\[how to get
started\](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/getting-started#\_basics).
Then set up a \[custom domain\](../steps/\_index.md). To get the \[DNS
challenge to succeed\](../troubleshoot.md#ownership-verification), have
your CDN point to your \[project\'s target
URL\](../../domains/steps/\_index.md#1-get-the-target-for-your-project).
\## 3. Handle apex domains To start routing client traffic through
Fastly, \[create \`CNAME\` records for your domain
names\](../../domains/steps/dns.md) through your DNS provider. \`CNAME\`
records can\'t point to apex domains. As a workaround, Fastly offers
\[Anycast
options\](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/using-fastly-with-apex-domains).
\## 4. Optional: Protect your site from on-path attacks An on-path
attack occurs when a hacker intercepts or modifies the communication
between a client and a server. This can lead to sensitive data leaks. To
prevent such attacks, make sure all communication with your site is
encrypted through HTTPS and can\'t be downgraded to HTTP. To do so,
enable HTTP strict transport security (HSTS). HSTS forces clients to
always communicate with your site over HTTPS. You can \[enable
HSTS\](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/enabling-hsts-through-fastly#forcing-tls-and-enabling-hsts)
in your Fastly account. All HTTP requests are then automatically
redirected to HTTPS. #Use DDEV for local development
\[DDEV\](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is an open-source tool
for local development environments. It allows you to use Docker in your
workflows while maintaining a GitOps workflow. You get fully
containerized environments to run everything locally without having to
install tools (including the Upsun CLI, PHP, and Composer) on your
machine. This guide assumes you have a project already running with
Upsun and you have the code on your computer. If you\'re starting from
scratch, first \[create a project\](/get-started/). \## Before you begin
Make sure your computer meets the \[system requirements for
DDEV\](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/#system-requirements). For
the integration to run smoothly, you also need the following tools: -
\`jq\` - \`base64\` - \`perl\` If you don\'t have these already
installed, use your normal package manager. \## 1. Install DDEV To
install DDEV, follow the \[DDEV documentation for your operating
system\](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/users/install/ddev-installation/).
This installs the self-contained \`ddev\` command-line interface (CLI).
For more information on \`ddev\`, run \`ddev help\`. \## 2. Add DDEV
configuration to your project Get basic configuration set up for your
project by running the following command: \`\`\`bash ddev config \`\`\`
Follow the prompts to add the correct DDEV configuration files to your
repository. \## 3. Add an API token To connect DDEV with your Upsun
account, use a Upsun API token. First \[create an API
token\](/administration/cli/api-tokens.md#2-create-an-api-token) in the
Console. Then add the token to your DDEV configuration. You can do so
globally (easiest for most people): \`\`\`bash ddev config global
\--web-environment-add=UPSUN \_CLI_TOKEN=API_TOKEN \`\`\` You can also
add the token only to the project: \`\`\`bash ddev config
\--web-environment-add=UPSUN \_CLI_TOKEN=API_TOKEN \`\`\` \## 4.
Optional: Get your project data To get your environment data (files,
database), run the following command: \`\`\`bash ddev pull upsun \`\`\`
To skip pulling files, add \`\--skip-files\` to the command. To skip
pulling a database, add \`\--skip-db\` to the command. \## 5. Run your
project Now your project is ready to run: \`\`\`bash ddev start \`\`\`
This runs all your hooks and builds your project like on Upsun. The
command returns the project URL \`http://PROJECT_NAME.ddev.site/\` as
well as a specific port on \`http://127.0.0.1\`. To see your project
running, open one of these URLs. \## What\'s next You\'ve got a project
running on a local web server. Now you can add customizations. For more
ideas and options, see the \[DDEV
documentation\](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/). \### Add
environment variables If your project requires environment variables for
its hooks or runtime, add them to the project\'s DDEV environment:
\`\`\`yaml {} web_environment: - VARIABLE_NAME: VALUE \`\`\` To apply
your changes, run the following command: \`\`\`bash ddev restart \`\`\`
#CLI Command reference \# Upsun CLI 5.0.15 -
\[Installation\](/administration/cli#1-install) - \[Open an
issue\](https://github.com/platformsh/cli/issues) \## All commands \*
\[\`clear-cache\`\](#clear-cache) \* \[\`decode\`\](#decode) \*
\[\`docs\`\](#docs) \* \[\`help\`\](#help) \* \[\`list\`\](#list) \*
\[\`multi\`\](#multi) \* \[\`web\`\](#web) \*\*activity\*\* \*
\[\`activity:cancel\`\](#activitycancel) \*
\[\`activity:get\`\](#activityget) \*
\[\`activity:list\`\](#activitylist) \*
\[\`activity:log\`\](#activitylog) \*\*app\*\* \*
\[\`app:config-get\`\](#appconfig-get) \*
\[\`app:config-validate\`\](#appconfig-validate) \*
\[\`app:list\`\](#applist) \*\*auth\*\* \*
\[\`auth:api-token-login\`\](#authapi-token-login) \*
\[\`auth:browser-login\`\](#authbrowser-login) \*
\[\`auth:info\`\](#authinfo) \* \[\`auth:logout\`\](#authlogout) \*
\[\`auth:verify-phone-number\`\](#authverify-phone-number)
\*\*backup\*\* \* \[\`backup:create\`\](#backupcreate) \*
\[\`backup:delete\`\](#backupdelete) \* \[\`backup:get\`\](#backupget)
\* \[\`backup:list\`\](#backuplist) \*
\[\`backup:restore\`\](#backuprestore) \*\*certificate\*\* \*
\[\`certificate:add\`\](#certificateadd) \*
\[\`certificate:delete\`\](#certificatedelete) \*
\[\`certificate:get\`\](#certificateget) \*
\[\`certificate:list\`\](#certificatelist) \*\*commit\*\* \*
\[\`commit:get\`\](#commitget) \* \[\`commit:list\`\](#commitlist)
\*\*db\*\* \* \[\`db:dump\`\](#dbdump) \* \[\`db:sql\`\](#dbsql)
\*\*domain\*\* \* \[\`domain:add\`\](#domainadd) \*
\[\`domain:delete\`\](#domaindelete) \* \[\`domain:get\`\](#domainget)
\* \[\`domain:list\`\](#domainlist) \*
\[\`domain:update\`\](#domainupdate) \*\*environment\*\* \*
\[\`environment:activate\`\](#environmentactivate) \*
\[\`environment:branch\`\](#environmentbranch) \*
\[\`environment:checkout\`\](#environmentcheckout) \*
\[\`environment:delete\`\](#environmentdelete) \*
\[\`environment:drush\`\](#environmentdrush) \*
\[\`environment:http-access\`\](#environmenthttp-access) \*
\[\`environment:info\`\](#environmentinfo) \*
\[\`environment:init\`\](#environmentinit) \*
\[\`environment:list\`\](#environmentlist) \*
\[\`environment:logs\`\](#environmentlogs) \*
\[\`environment:merge\`\](#environmentmerge) \*
\[\`environment:pause\`\](#environmentpause) \*
\[\`environment:push\`\](#environmentpush) \*
\[\`environment:redeploy\`\](#environmentredeploy) \*
\[\`environment:relationships\`\](#environmentrelationships) \*
\[\`environment:resume\`\](#environmentresume) \*
\[\`environment:scp\`\](#environmentscp) \*
\[\`environment:ssh\`\](#environmentssh) \*
\[\`environment:synchronize\`\](#environmentsynchronize) \*
\[\`environment:url\`\](#environmenturl) \*
\[\`environment:xdebug\`\](#environmentxdebug) \*\*integration\*\* \*
\[\`integration:activity:get\`\](#integrationactivityget) \*
\[\`integration:activity:list\`\](#integrationactivitylist) \*
\[\`integration:activity:log\`\](#integrationactivitylog) \*
\[\`integration:add\`\](#integrationadd) \*
\[\`integration:delete\`\](#integrationdelete) \*
\[\`integration:get\`\](#integrationget) \*
\[\`integration:list\`\](#integrationlist) \*
\[\`integration:update\`\](#integrationupdate) \*
\[\`integration:validate\`\](#integrationvalidate) \*\*local\*\* \*
\[\`local:dir\`\](#localdir) \*\*metrics\*\* \*
\[\`metrics:all\`\](#metricsall) \* \[\`metrics:cpu\`\](#metricscpu) \*
\[\`metrics:disk-usage\`\](#metricsdisk-usage) \*
\[\`metrics:memory\`\](#metricsmemory) \*\*mount\*\* \*
\[\`mount:download\`\](#mountdownload) \* \[\`mount:list\`\](#mountlist)
\* \[\`mount:upload\`\](#mountupload) \*\*operation\*\* \*
\[\`operation:list\`\](#operationlist) \*
\[\`operation:run\`\](#operationrun) \*\*organization\*\* \*
\[\`organization:billing:address\`\](#organizationbillingaddress) \*
\[\`organization:billing:profile\`\](#organizationbillingprofile) \*
\[\`organization:create\`\](#organizationcreate) \*
\[\`organization:delete\`\](#organizationdelete) \*
\[\`organization:info\`\](#organizationinfo) \*
\[\`organization:list\`\](#organizationlist) \*
\[\`organization:subscription:list\`\](#organizationsubscriptionlist) \*
\[\`organization:user:add\`\](#organizationuseradd) \*
\[\`organization:user:delete\`\](#organizationuserdelete) \*
\[\`organization:user:get\`\](#organizationuserget) \*
\[\`organization:user:list\`\](#organizationuserlist) \*
\[\`organization:user:projects\`\](#organizationuserprojects) \*
\[\`organization:user:update\`\](#organizationuserupdate)
\*\*project\*\* \*
\[\`project:clear-build-cache\`\](#projectclear-build-cache) \*
\[\`project:create\`\](#projectcreate) \*
\[\`project:delete\`\](#projectdelete) \*
\[\`project:get\`\](#projectget) \* \[\`project:info\`\](#projectinfo)
\* \[\`project:init\`\](#projectinit) \*
\[\`project:list\`\](#projectlist) \*
\[\`project:set-remote\`\](#projectset-remote) \*\*repo\*\* \*
\[\`repo:cat\`\](#repocat) \* \[\`repo:ls\`\](#repols) \*
\[\`repo:read\`\](#reporead) \*\*resources\*\* \*
\[\`resources:build:get\`\](#resourcesbuildget) \*
\[\`resources:build:set\`\](#resourcesbuildset) \*
\[\`resources:get\`\](#resourcesget) \*
\[\`resources:set\`\](#resourcesset) \*
\[\`resources:size:list\`\](#resourcessizelist) \*\*route\*\* \*
\[\`route:get\`\](#routeget) \* \[\`route:list\`\](#routelist)
\*\*service\*\* \* \[\`service:list\`\](#servicelist) \*
\[\`service:mongo:dump\`\](#servicemongodump) \*
\[\`service:mongo:export\`\](#servicemongoexport) \*
\[\`service:mongo:restore\`\](#servicemongorestore) \*
\[\`service:mongo:shell\`\](#servicemongoshell) \*
\[\`service:redis-cli\`\](#serviceredis-cli) \*\*source-operation\*\* \*
\[\`source-operation:list\`\](#source-operationlist) \*
\[\`source-operation:run\`\](#source-operationrun) \*\*ssh-cert\*\* \*
\[\`ssh-cert:load\`\](#ssh-certload) \*\*ssh-key\*\* \*
\[\`ssh-key:add\`\](#ssh-keyadd) \*
\[\`ssh-key:delete\`\](#ssh-keydelete) \*
\[\`ssh-key:list\`\](#ssh-keylist) \*\*subscription\*\* \*
\[\`subscription:info\`\](#subscriptioninfo) \*\*team\*\* \*
\[\`team:create\`\](#teamcreate) \* \[\`team:delete\`\](#teamdelete) \*
\[\`team:get\`\](#teamget) \* \[\`team:list\`\](#teamlist) \*
\[\`team:project:add\`\](#teamprojectadd) \*
\[\`team:project:delete\`\](#teamprojectdelete) \*
\[\`team:project:list\`\](#teamprojectlist) \*
\[\`team:update\`\](#teamupdate) \* \[\`team:user:add\`\](#teamuseradd)
\* \[\`team:user:delete\`\](#teamuserdelete) \*
\[\`team:user:list\`\](#teamuserlist) \*\*tunnel\*\* \*
\[\`tunnel:close\`\](#tunnelclose) \* \[\`tunnel:info\`\](#tunnelinfo)
\* \[\`tunnel:list\`\](#tunnellist) \* \[\`tunnel:open\`\](#tunnelopen)
\* \[\`tunnel:single\`\](#tunnelsingle) \*\*user\*\* \*
\[\`user:add\`\](#useradd) \* \[\`user:delete\`\](#userdelete) \*
\[\`user:get\`\](#userget) \* \[\`user:list\`\](#userlist) \*
\[\`user:update\`\](#userupdate) \*\*variable\*\* \*
\[\`variable:create\`\](#variablecreate) \*
\[\`variable:delete\`\](#variabledelete) \*
\[\`variable:get\`\](#variableget) \*
\[\`variable:list\`\](#variablelist) \*
\[\`variable:update\`\](#variableupdate) \*\*worker\*\* \*
\[\`worker:list\`\](#workerlist) \## \`clear-cache\` Clear the CLI cache
Aliases: \`cc\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun cc \`\`\` \#### Options \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`decode\` Decode
an encoded string such as PLATFORM_VARIABLES \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
decode \[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\] \[\--\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`value\`(required) The variable value to decode \#### Options \*
\`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value) The property to view within
the variable \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* View \"foo\" in PLATFORM_VARIABLES: \`\`\` upsun decode
\"\$PLATFORM_VARIABLES\" -P foo \`\`\` \## \`docs\` Open the online
documentation \### Usage \`\`\` upsun docs \[\--browser BROWSER\]
\[\--pipe\] \[\--\] \[\]\... \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`search\`(optional; multiple values allowed) Search term(s) \####
Options \* \`\--browser\` (expects a value) The browser to use to open
the URL. Set 0 for none. \* \`\--pipe\` Output the URL to stdout. \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Search
for information about the CLI: \`\`\` upsun docs CLI \`\`\` \## \`help\`
Displays help for a command \### Usage \`\`\` upsun help \[\--format
FORMAT\] \[\--raw\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` The help command displays help
for a given command: upsun help list You can also output the help in
other formats by using the \--format option: upsun help \--format=json
list To display the list of available commands, please use the list
command. \#### Arguments \* \`command_name\`(optional) The command name
\#### Options \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format (txt,
json, or md) \* \`\--raw\` To output raw command help \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`list\` Lists commands \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun list \[\--raw\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[\--all\]
\[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` The list command lists all commands: upsun list You
can also display the commands for a specific namespace: upsun list
project You can also output the information in other formats by using
the \--format option: upsun list \--format=xml It\'s also possible to
get raw list of commands (useful for embedding command runner): upsun
list \--raw \#### Arguments \* \`command\`(required) The command to
execute \* \`namespace\`(optional) The namespace name \#### Options \*
\`\--raw\` To output raw command list \* \`\--format\` (expects a value)
The output format (txt, xml, json, or md) \* \`\--all\` Show all
commands, including hidden ones \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this
help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`multi\` Execute a command on
multiple projects \### Usage \`\`\` upsun multi \[-p\|\--projects
PROJECTS\] \[\--continue\] \[\--sort SORT\] \[\--reverse\] \[\--\]
()\... \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`cmd\`(required; multiple values
allowed) The command to execute \#### Options \* \`\--projects\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) A list of project IDs, separated by commas
and/or whitespace \* \`\--continue\` Continue running commands even if
an exception is encountered \* \`\--sort\` (expects a value) A property
by which to sort the list of project options \* \`\--reverse\` Reverse
the order of project options \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* List variables on the
\"main\" environment for multiple projects: \`\`\` upsun multi -p
l7ywemwizmmgb,o43m25zns6k2d,3nyujoslhydhx \-- var -e main \`\`\` \##
\`web\` Open the project in the Web Console \### Usage \`\`\` upsun web
\[\--browser BROWSER\] \[\--pipe\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \`\`\` \#### Options \*
\`\--browser\` (expects a value) The browser to use to open the URL. Set
0 for none. \* \`\--pipe\` Output the URL to stdout. \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this
help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`activity:cancel\` Cancel an
activity \### Usage \`\`\` upsun activity:cancel \[-t\|\--type TYPE\]
\[-x\|\--exclude-type EXCLUDE-TYPE\] \[-a\|\--all\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \####
Arguments \* \`id\`(optional) The activity ID. Defaults to the most
recent cancellable activity. \#### Options \* \`\--type\` (\`-t\`)
(expects a value) Filter by type (when selecting a default activity).
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. The %
or \* characters can be used as a wildcard for the type, e.g. \'%var%\'
to select variable-related activities. \* \`\--exclude-type\` (\`-x\`)
(expects a value) Exclude by type (when selecting a default activity).
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. The %
or \* characters can be used as a wildcard to exclude types. \*
\`\--all\` (\`-a\`) Check recent activities on all environments (when
selecting a default activity) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a
value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a
value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`activity:get\` View detailed information on a single activity \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun activity:get \[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\]
\[-t\|\--type TYPE\] \[-x\|\--exclude-type EXCLUDE-TYPE\] \[\--state
STATE\] \[\--result RESULT\] \[-i\|\--incomplete\] \[-a\|\--all\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\]
\[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`id\`(optional) The activity ID. Defaults to the most recent activity.
\#### Options \* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value) The property
to view \* \`\--type\` (\`-t\`) (expects a value) Filter by type (when
selecting a default activity). Values may be split by commas (e.g.
\"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. The % or \* characters can be used as a
wildcard for the type, e.g. \'%var%\' to select variable-related
activities. \* \`\--exclude-type\` (\`-x\`) (expects a value) Exclude by
type (when selecting a default activity). Values may be split by commas
(e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. The % or \* characters can be used
as a wildcard to exclude types. \* \`\--state\` (expects a value) Filter
by state (when selecting a default activity): in_progress, pending,
complete, or cancelled. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\")
and/or whitespace. \* \`\--result\` (expects a value) Filter by result
(when selecting a default activity): success or failure \*
\`\--incomplete\` (\`-i\`) Include only incomplete activities (when
selecting a default activity). This is a shorthand for
\--state=in_progress,pending \* \`\--all\` (\`-a\`) Check recent
activities on all environments (when selecting a default activity) \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--format\`
(expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \*
\`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. The % or
\* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas
(e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output
the table header \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format
(as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Find the time a project was
created: \`\`\` upsun activity:get \--all \--type project.create -P
completed_at \`\`\` \* Find the duration (in seconds) of the last
activity: \`\`\` upsun activity:get -P duration \`\`\` \##
\`activity:list\` Get a list of activities for an environment or project
Aliases: \`activities\`, \`act\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun activities
\[-t\|\--type TYPE\] \[-x\|\--exclude-type EXCLUDE-TYPE\] \[\--limit
LIMIT\] \[\--start START\] \[\--state STATE\] \[\--result RESULT\]
\[-i\|\--incomplete\] \[-a\|\--all\] \[\--format FORMAT\]
\[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \`\`\`
\#### Options \* \`\--type\` (\`-t\`) (expects a value) Filter
activities by type For a list of types see:
https://docs.upsun.com/integrations/activity/reference.html#type Values
may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. The first
part of the activity name can be omitted, e.g. \'cron\' can select
\'environment.cron\' activities. The % or \* characters can be used as a
wildcard, e.g. \'%var%\' to select variable-related activities. \*
\`\--exclude-type\` (\`-x\`) (expects a value) Exclude activities by
type. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace.
The first part of the activity name can be omitted, e.g. \'cron\' can
exclude \'environment.cron\' activities. The % or \* characters can be
used as a wildcard to exclude types. \* \`\--limit\` (expects a value)
Limit the number of results displayed \* \`\--start\` (expects a value)
Only activities created before this date will be listed \* \`\--state\`
(expects a value) Filter activities by state: in_progress, pending,
complete, or cancelled. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\")
and/or whitespace. \* \`\--result\` (expects a value) Filter activities
by result: success or failure \* \`\--incomplete\` (\`-i\`) Only list
incomplete activities \* \`\--all\` (\`-a\`) List activities on all
environments \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format:
table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value)
Columns to display. Available columns: id\*, created\*, description\*,
progress\*, state\*, result\*, completed, environments, time_build,
time_deploy, time_execute, time_wait, type (\* = default columns). The
character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for the default columns.
The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by
commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not
output the table header \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date
format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects
a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a
value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* List recent activities for the current environment: \`\`\`
upsun activity:list \`\`\` \* List all recent activities for the current
project: \`\`\` upsun activity:list \--all \`\`\` \* List recent pushes:
\`\`\` upsun activity:list \--type push \`\`\` \* List all recent
activities excluding crons and redeploys: \`\`\` upsun activity:list
\--exclude-type \'\*.cron,\*.backup\*\' \`\`\` \* List pushes made
before 15 March: \`\`\` upsun activity:list \--type push \--start
2015-03-15 \`\`\` \* List up to 25 incomplete activities: \`\`\` upsun
activity:list \--limit 25 -i \`\`\` \## \`activity:log\` Display the log
for an activity \### Usage \`\`\` upsun activity:log \[\--refresh
REFRESH\] \[-t\|\--timestamps\] \[\--type TYPE\] \[-x\|\--exclude-type
EXCLUDE-TYPE\] \[\--state STATE\] \[\--result RESULT\]
\[-i\|\--incomplete\] \[-a\|\--all\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--\]
\[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`id\`(optional) The activity ID.
Defaults to the most recent activity. \#### Options \* \`\--refresh\`
(expects a value) Activity refresh interval (seconds). Set to 0 to
disable refreshing. \* \`\--timestamps\` (\`-t\`) Display a timestamp
next to each message \* \`\--type\` (expects a value) Filter by type
(when selecting a default activity). Values may be split by commas (e.g.
\"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. The % or \* characters can be used as a
wildcard for the type, e.g. \'%var%\' to select variable-related
activities. \* \`\--exclude-type\` (\`-x\`) (expects a value) Exclude by
type (when selecting a default activity). Values may be split by commas
(e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. The % or \* characters can be used
as a wildcard to exclude types. \* \`\--state\` (expects a value) Filter
by state (when selecting a default activity): in_progress, pending,
complete, or cancelled. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\")
and/or whitespace. \* \`\--result\` (expects a value) Filter by result
(when selecting a default activity): success or failure \*
\`\--incomplete\` (\`-i\`) Include only incomplete activities (when
selecting a default activity). This is a shorthand for
\--state=in_progress,pending \* \`\--all\` (\`-a\`) Check recent
activities on all environments (when selecting a default activity) \*
\`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date format
string) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or
URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID.
Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Display the log
for the last push on the current environment: \`\`\` upsun activity:log
\--type environment.push \`\`\` \* Display the log for the last activity
on the current project: \`\`\` upsun activity:log \--all \`\`\` \*
Display the log for the last push, with microsecond timestamps: \`\`\`
upsun activity:log -a -t \--type %push \--date-fmt \'Y-m-d\\TH:i:s.uP\'
\`\`\` \## \`app:config-get\` View the configuration of an app \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun app:config-get \[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\]
\[\--refresh\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \[-i\|\--identity-file IDENTITY-FILE\]
\`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value) The
configuration property to view \* \`\--refresh\` Whether to refresh the
cache \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL
\* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\`
(\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \*
\`\--identity-file\` (\`-i\`) (expects a value) \[Deprecated option, no
longer used\] \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`app:config-validate\` Validate the config files of a project Aliases:
\`validate\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun app:config-validate \`\`\` \####
Options \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|vv\|vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Validate the project configuration files in your current
directory: \`\`\` upsun app:config-validate \`\`\` \## \`app:list\` List
apps in the project Aliases: \`apps\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun apps
\[\--refresh\] \[\--pipe\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns
COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--refresh\`
Whether to refresh the cache \* \`\--pipe\` Output a list of app names
only \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL
\* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--format\`
(expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \*
\`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. Available
columns: name\*, type\*, disk, path, size (\* = default columns). The
character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for the default columns.
The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by
commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not
output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`auth:api-token-login\` Log in to Upsun
using an API token \### Usage \`\`\` upsun auth:api-token-login \`\`\`
Use this command to log in to your Upsun account using an API token. You
can create an account at: https://auth.upsun.com/register Alternatively,
to log in to the CLI with a browser, run: upsun auth:browser-login \####
Options \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`auth:browser-login\` Log in to Upsun via a browser Aliases: \`login\`
\### Usage \`\`\` upsun login \[-f\|\--force\] \[\--method METHOD\]
\[\--max-age MAX-AGE\] \[\--browser BROWSER\] \[\--pipe\] \`\`\` Use
this command to log in to the Upsun CLI using a web browser. It launches
a temporary local website which redirects you to log in if necessary,
and then captures the resulting authorization code. Your system\'s
default browser will be used. You can override this using the \--browser
option. Alternatively, to log in using an API token (without a browser),
run: upsun auth:api-token-login To authenticate non-interactively,
configure an API token using the UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN environment variable.
\#### Options \* \`\--force\` (\`-f\`) Log in again, even if already
logged in \* \`\--method\` (expects a value) Require specific
authentication method(s) \* \`\--max-age\` (expects a value) The maximum
age (in seconds) of the web authentication session \* \`\--browser\`
(expects a value) The browser to use to open the URL. Set 0 for none. \*
\`\--pipe\` Output the URL to stdout. \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display
this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`auth:info\` Display your
account information \### Usage \`\`\` upsun auth:info
\[\--no-auto-login\] \[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\] \[\--refresh\]
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[\--\]
\[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`property\`(optional) The account
property to view \#### Options \* \`\--no-auto-login\` Skips auto login.
Nothing will be output if not logged in, and the exit code will be 0,
assuming no other errors. \* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value)
The account property to view (alternate syntax) \* \`\--refresh\`
Whether to refresh the cache \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The
output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`)
(expects a value) Columns to display. The % or \* characters may be used
as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Print
your user ID: \`\`\` upsun auth:info id \`\`\` \* Print your email
address: \`\`\` upsun auth:info email \`\`\` \* Print your user ID (or
nothing if not logged in): \`\`\` upsun auth:info id \--no-auto-login
\`\`\` \## \`auth:logout\` Log out of Upsun Aliases: \`logout\` \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun logout \[-a\|\--all\] \[\--other\] \`\`\` \####
Options \* \`\--all\` (\`-a\`) Log out from all local sessions \*
\`\--other\` Log out from other local sessions \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`auth:verify-phone-number\`
Verify your phone number interactively \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
auth:verify-phone-number \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`backup:create\` Make a backup
of an environment Aliases: \`backup\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun backup
\[\--live\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \####
Arguments \* \`environment\`(optional) The environment \#### Options \*
\`\--live\` Live backup: do not stop the environment. If set, this
leaves the environment running and open to connections during the
backup. This reduces downtime, at the risk of backing up data in an
inconsistent state. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Make a backup of
the current environment: \`\`\` upsun backup:create \`\`\` \* Request a
backup (and exit quickly): \`\`\` upsun backup:create \--no-wait \`\`\`
\* Make a backup avoiding downtime (but risking inconsistency): \`\`\`
upsun backup:create \--live \`\`\` \## \`backup:delete\` Delete an
environment backup \### Usage \`\`\` upsun backup:delete
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`backup\`(optional) The ID of the backup. Required in non-interactive
mode. \#### Options \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`backup:get\` View an
environment backup \### Usage \`\`\` upsun backup:get \[-P\|\--property
PROPERTY\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`backup\`(optional) The ID of the backup. Defaults to the most recent
one. \#### Options \* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value) The
backup property to display. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value)
The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value)
The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a
PHP date format string) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`backup:list\` List available backups of
an environment Aliases: \`backups\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun backups
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\]
\[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--format\` (expects a value)
The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`)
(expects a value) Columns to display. Available columns: created_at\*,
id\*, restorable\*, automated, commit_id, expires_at, index, live,
status, updated_at (\* = default columns). The character \"+\" can be
used as a placeholder for the default columns. The % or \* characters
may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g.
\"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the
table header \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a
PHP date format string) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \*
Display backups including the \"live\" and \"commit_id\" columns: \`\`\`
upsun backup:list -c+live,commit_id \`\`\` \## \`backup:restore\`
Restore an environment backup \### Usage \`\`\` upsun backup:restore
\[\--target TARGET\] \[\--branch-from BRANCH-FROM\] \[\--no-code\]
\[\--resources-init RESOURCES-INIT\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\]
\[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`backup\`(optional) The ID of
the backup. Defaults to the most recent one \#### Options \*
\`\--target\` (expects a value) The environment to restore to. Defaults
to the backup\'s current environment \* \`\--branch-from\` (expects a
value) If the \--target does not yet exist, this specifies the parent of
the new environment \* \`\--no-code\` Do not restore code, only data. \*
\`\--resources-init\` (expects a value) Set the resources to use for new
services: parent, default or minimum. If not set, \"parent\" will be
used. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL
\* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--no-wait\`
(\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait
for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display
this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Restore the most
recent backup: \`\`\` upsun backup:restore \`\`\` \* Restore a specific
backup: \`\`\` upsun backup:restore 92c9a4b2aa75422efb3d \`\`\` \##
\`certificate:add\` Add an SSL certificate to the project \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun certificate:add \[\--cert CERT\] \[\--key KEY\] \[\--chain
CHAIN\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \`\`\`
\#### Options \* \`\--cert\` (expects a value) The path to the
certificate file \* \`\--key\` (expects a value) The path to the
certificate private key file \* \`\--chain\` (expects a value) The path
to the certificate chain file \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a
value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for
the operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to
complete (default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`certificate:delete\` Delete a certificate from the project \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun certificate:delete \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`id\`(required) The certificate ID (or the start of it) \#### Options
\* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`certificate:get\` View a
certificate \### Usage \`\`\` upsun certificate:get \[-P\|\--property
PROPERTY\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[\--\]
\`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`id\`(required) The certificate ID (or the
start of it) \#### Options \* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value)
The certificate property to view \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value)
The date format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`)
(expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display
this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`certificate:list\` List
project certificates Aliases: \`certificates\`, \`certs\` \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun certificates \[\--domain DOMAIN\] \[\--exclude-domain
EXCLUDE-DOMAIN\] \[\--issuer ISSUER\] \[\--only-auto\] \[\--no-auto\]
\[\--ignore-expiry\] \[\--only-expired\] \[\--no-expired\]
\[\--pipe-domains\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--format FORMAT\]
\[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--domain\` (expects a value) Filter by domain
name (case-insensitive search) \* \`\--exclude-domain\` (expects a
value) Exclude certificates, matching by domain name (case-insensitive
search) \* \`\--issuer\` (expects a value) Filter by issuer \*
\`\--only-auto\` Show only auto-provisioned certificates \*
\`\--no-auto\` Show only manually added certificates \*
\`\--ignore-expiry\` Show both expired and non-expired certificates \*
\`\--only-expired\` Show only expired certificates \* \`\--no-expired\`
Show only non-expired certificates (default) \* \`\--pipe-domains\` Only
return a list of domain names covered by the certificates \*
\`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date format
string) \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table,
csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns
to display. Available columns: created, domains, expires, id, issuer.
The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by
commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not
output the table header \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Output a list of domains covered by valid certificates:
\`\`\` upsun certificate:list \--pipe-domains \--no-expired \`\`\` \##
\`commit:get\` Show commit details \### Usage \`\`\` upsun commit:get
\[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--\] \[\]
\`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`commit\`(optional) The commit SHA. This can
also accept \"HEAD\", and caret (\^) or tilde (\~) suffixes for parent
commits. \#### Options \* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value) The
commit property to display. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value)
The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value)
The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a
PHP date format string) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Display the current commit
on the environment: \`\`\` upsun commit:get \`\`\` \* Display the
previous commit: \`\`\` upsun commit:get HEAD\~ \`\`\` \* Display the
3rd commit before the current one: \`\`\` upsun commit:get HEAD\~3
\`\`\` \* Display the email address of the last commit author: \`\`\`
upsun commit:get -P author.email \`\`\` \## \`commit:list\` List commits
Aliases: \`commits\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun commits \[\--limit LIMIT\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\]
\[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`commit\`(optional) The starting Git commit SHA. This can also accept
\"HEAD\", and caret (\^) or tilde (\~) suffixes for parent commits.
\#### Options \* \`\--limit\` (expects a value) The number of commits to
display. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or
URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID.
Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--format\`
(expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \*
\`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. Available
columns: author, date, sha, summary. The % or \* characters may be used
as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date format
string) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Display commits on an environment: \`\`\` upsun commit:list
\`\`\` \* Display commits starting from two before the current one:
\`\`\` upsun commit:list HEAD\~2 \`\`\` \## \`db:dump\` Create a local
dump of the remote database \### Usage \`\`\` upsun db:dump \[\--schema
SCHEMA\] \[-f\|\--file FILE\] \[-d\|\--directory DIRECTORY\]
\[-z\|\--gzip\] \[-t\|\--timestamp\] \[-o\|\--stdout\] \[\--table
TABLE\] \[\--exclude-table EXCLUDE-TABLE\] \[\--schema-only\]
\[\--charset CHARSET\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \[-r\|\--relationship RELATIONSHIP\]
\`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--schema\` (expects a value) The schema to
dump. Omit to use the default schema (usually \"main\"). \* \`\--file\`
(\`-f\`) (expects a value) A custom filename for the dump \*
\`\--directory\` (\`-d\`) (expects a value) A custom directory for the
dump \* \`\--gzip\` (\`-z\`) Compress the dump using gzip \*
\`\--timestamp\` (\`-t\`) Add a timestamp to the dump filename \*
\`\--stdout\` (\`-o\`) Output to STDOUT instead of a file \*
\`\--table\` (expects a value) Table(s) to include \*
\`\--exclude-table\` (expects a value) Table(s) to exclude \*
\`\--schema-only\` Dump only schemas, no data \* \`\--charset\` (expects
a value) The character set encoding for the dump \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value)
The remote application name \* \`\--relationship\` (\`-r\`) (expects a
value) The service relationship to use \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display
this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Create an SQL dump
file: \`\`\` upsun db:dump \`\`\` \* Create a gzipped SQL dump file
named \"dump.sql.gz\": \`\`\` upsun db:dump \--gzip -f dump.sql.gz
\`\`\` \## \`db:sql\` Run SQL on the remote database Aliases: \`sql\`
\### Usage \`\`\` upsun sql \[\--raw\] \[\--schema SCHEMA\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-A\|\--app APP\] \[-r\|\--relationship RELATIONSHIP\] \[\--\] \[\]
\`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`query\`(optional) An SQL statement to
execute \#### Options \* \`\--raw\` Produce raw, non-tabular output \*
\`\--schema\` (expects a value) The schema to use. Omit to use the
default schema (usually \"main\"). Pass an empty string to not use any
schema. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or
URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID.
Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\`
(\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \*
\`\--relationship\` (\`-r\`) (expects a value) The service relationship
to use \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Open an SQL console on the remote database: \`\`\` upsun
db:sql \`\`\` \* View tables on the remote database: \`\`\` upsun db:sql
\'SHOW TABLES\' \`\`\` \* Import a dump file into the remote database:
\`\`\` upsun db:sql \< dump.sql \`\`\` \## \`domain:add\` Add a new
domain to the project \### Usage \`\`\` upsun domain:add \[\--cert
CERT\] \[\--key KEY\] \[\--chain CHAIN\] \[\--attach ATTACH\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`name\`(required) The domain name \#### Options \* \`\--cert\` (expects
a value) The path to a custom certificate file \* \`\--key\` (expects a
value) The path to the private key for the custom certificate \*
\`\--chain\` (expects a value) The path to the chain file(s) for the
custom certificate \* \`\--attach\` (expects a value) The production
domain that this one replaces in the environment\'s routes. Required for
non-production environment domains. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects
a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a
value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to
complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Add
the domain example.com: \`\`\` upsun domain:add example.com \`\`\` \*
Add the domain example.org with a custom SSL/TLS certificate: \`\`\`
upsun domain:add example.org \--cert example-org.crt \--key
example-org.key \`\`\` \## \`domain:delete\` Delete a domain from the
project \### Usage \`\`\` upsun domain:delete \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\]
\[\--\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`name\`(required) The domain name
\#### Options \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project
ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Delete the domain
example.com: \`\`\` upsun domain:delete example.com \`\`\` \##
\`domain:get\` Show detailed information for a domain \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun domain:get \[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\] \[\--format FORMAT\]
\[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--\]
\[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`name\`(optional) The domain name \####
Options \* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value) The domain
property to view \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format:
table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value)
Columns to display. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--date-fmt\`
(expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date format string) \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`domain:list\` Get a list of
all domains Aliases: \`domains\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun domains
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \`\`\`
\#### Options \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format:
table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value)
Columns to display. Available columns: name\*, ssl\*, created_at\*,
registered_name, replacement_for, type, updated_at (\* = default
columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for the
default columns. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this
help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`domain:update\` Update a
domain \### Usage \`\`\` upsun domain:update \[\--cert CERT\] \[\--key
KEY\] \[\--chain CHAIN\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \`\`\` \####
Arguments \* \`name\`(required) The domain name \#### Options \*
\`\--cert\` (expects a value) The path to a custom certificate file \*
\`\--key\` (expects a value) The path to the private key for the custom
certificate \* \`\--chain\` (expects a value) The path to the chain
file(s) for the custom certificate \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a
value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a
value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to
complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Update
the custom certificate for the domain example.org: \`\`\` upsun
domain:update example.org \--cert example-org.crt \--key example-org.key
\`\`\` \## \`environment:activate\` Activate an environment \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun environment:activate \[\--parent PARENT\]
\[\--resources-init RESOURCES-INIT\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\]
\[\--\] \[\]\... \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`environment\`(optional;
multiple values allowed) The environment(s) to activate \#### Options \*
\`\--parent\` (expects a value) Set a new environment parent before
activating \* \`\--resources-init\` (expects a value) Set the resources
to use for new services: parent, default or minimum. If not set,
\"parent\" will be used. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value)
The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value)
The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to
complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \*
Activate the environments \"develop\" and \"stage\": \`\`\` upsun
environment:activate develop stage \`\`\` \## \`environment:branch\`
Branch an environment Aliases: \`branch\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun branch
\[\--title TITLE\] \[\--type TYPE\] \[\--no-clone-parent\]
\[\--no-checkout\] \[\--resources-init RESOURCES-INIT\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\]
\[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`id\`(optional)
The ID (branch name) of the new environment \* \`parent\`(optional) The
parent of the new environment \#### Options \* \`\--title\` (expects a
value) The title of the new environment \* \`\--type\` (expects a value)
The type of the new environment \* \`\--no-clone-parent\` Do not clone
the parent environment\'s data \* \`\--no-checkout\` Do not check out
the branch locally \* \`\--resources-init\` (expects a value) Set the
resources to use for new services: parent, default or minimum. If not
set, \"parent\" will be used. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a
value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a
value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to
complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Create
a new branch \"sprint-2\", based on \"develop\": \`\`\` upsun
environment:branch sprint-2 develop \`\`\` \## \`environment:checkout\`
Check out an environment Aliases: \`checkout\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
checkout \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`id\`(optional) The ID of the
environment to check out. For example: \"sprint2\" \#### Options \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Check
out the environment \"develop\": \`\`\` upsun environment:checkout
develop \`\`\` \## \`environment:delete\` Delete one or more
environments \### Usage \`\`\` upsun environment:delete
\[\--delete-branch\] \[\--no-delete-branch\] \[\--type TYPE\]
\[-t\|\--only-type ONLY-TYPE\] \[\--exclude EXCLUDE\] \[\--exclude-type
EXCLUDE-TYPE\] \[\--inactive\] \[\--status STATUS\] \[\--only-status
ONLY-STATUS\] \[\--exclude-status EXCLUDE-STATUS\] \[\--merged\]
\[\--allow-delete-parent\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\]
\[\--\] \[\]\... \`\`\` When a Upsun environment is deleted, it will
become \"inactive\": it will exist only as a Git branch, containing code
but no services, databases nor files. This command allows you to delete
environments as well as their Git branches. \#### Arguments \*
\`environment\`(optional; multiple values allowed) The environment(s) to
delete. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be
split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \#### Options \*
\`\--delete-branch\` Delete Git branch(es) for inactive environments,
without confirmation \* \`\--no-delete-branch\` Do not delete any Git
branch(es) (inactive environments) \* \`\--type\` (expects a value)
Delete all environments of a type (adding to any others selected) Values
may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--only-type\` (\`-t\`) (expects a value) Only delete environments of
a specific type Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--exclude\` (expects a value) Environment(s) not to
delete. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be
split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--exclude-type\` (expects a value) Environment type(s) of which not
to delete Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--inactive\` Delete all inactive environments (adding
to any others selected) \* \`\--status\` (expects a value) Delete all
environments of a status (adding to any others selected) Values may be
split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--only-status\` (expects a value) Only delete environments of a
specific status Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--exclude-status\` (expects a value) Environment
status(es) of which not to delete Values may be split by commas (e.g.
\"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--merged\` Delete all merged
environments (adding to any others selected) \*
\`\--allow-delete-parent\` Allow environments that have children to be
deleted \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or
URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID.
Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \*
\`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Delete the
currently checked out environment: \`\`\` upsun environment:delete
\`\`\` \* Delete the environments \"test\" and \"example-1\": \`\`\`
upsun environment:delete test example-1 \`\`\` \* Delete all inactive
environments: \`\`\` upsun environment:delete \--inactive \`\`\` \*
Delete all environments merged with their parent: \`\`\` upsun
environment:delete \--merged \`\`\` \## \`environment:drush\` Run a
drush command on the remote environment Aliases: \`drush\` \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun drush \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \[\--\] \[\]\... \`\`\` \#### Arguments
\* \`cmd\`(optional; multiple values allowed) A command to pass to Drush
\#### Options \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project
ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Run
\"drush status\" on the remote environment: \`\`\` upsun
environment:drush status \`\`\` \* Enable the Overlay module on the
remote environment: \`\`\` upsun environment:drush en overlay \`\`\` \*
Get a one-time login link (using \-- before options): \`\`\` upsun
environment:drush user-login \-- \--mail=name@example.com \`\`\` \*
Alternative syntax (quoting the whole command): \`\`\` upsun
environment:drush \'user-login \--mail=name@example.com\' \`\`\` \##
\`environment:http-access\` Update HTTP access settings for an
environment Aliases: \`httpaccess\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun httpaccess
\[\--access ACCESS\] \[\--auth AUTH\] \[\--enabled ENABLED\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--access\`
(expects a value) Access restriction in the format
\"permission:address\". Use 0 to clear all addresses. \* \`\--auth\`
(expects a value) HTTP Basic auth credentials in the format
\"username:password\". Use 0 to clear all credentials. \* \`\--enabled\`
(expects a value) Whether access control should be enabled: 1 to enable,
0 to disable \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID
or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment
ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \*
\`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Require a username
and password: \`\`\` upsun environment:http-access \--auth
myname:mypassword \`\`\` \* Restrict access to only one IP address:
\`\`\` upsun environment:http-access \--access allow:69.208.1.192
\--access deny:any \`\`\` \* Remove the password requirement, keeping IP
restrictions: \`\`\` upsun environment:http-access \--auth 0 \`\`\` \*
Disable all HTTP access control: \`\`\` upsun environment:http-access
\--enabled 0 \`\`\` \## \`environment:info\` Read or set properties for
an environment \### Usage \`\`\` upsun environment:info \[\--refresh\]
\[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\]
\[\--no-header\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\] \[\] \`\`\`
\#### Arguments \* \`property\`(optional) The name of the property \*
\`value\`(optional) Set a new value for the property \#### Options \*
\`\--refresh\` Whether to refresh the cache \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects
a value) The date format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--format\`
(expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \*
\`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. The % or
\* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas
(e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output
the table header \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Read all
environment properties: \`\`\` upsun environment:info \`\`\` \* Show the
environment\'s status: \`\`\` upsun environment:info status \`\`\` \*
Show the date the environment was created: \`\`\` upsun environment:info
created_at \`\`\` \* Enable email sending: \`\`\` upsun environment:info
enable_smtp true \`\`\` \* Change the environment title: \`\`\` upsun
environment:info title \"New feature\" \`\`\` \* Change the
environment\'s parent branch: \`\`\` upsun environment:info parent
sprint-2 \`\`\` \* Unset the environment\'s parent branch: \`\`\` upsun
environment:info parent - \`\`\` \## \`environment:init\` Initialize an
environment from a public Git repository \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
environment:init \[\--profile PROFILE\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\]
\[\--\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`url\`(required) A URL to a Git
repository \#### Options \* \`\--profile\` (expects a value) The name of
the profile \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID
or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment
ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \*
\`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`environment:list\` Get a list
of environments Aliases: \`environments\`, \`env\` \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun environments \[-I\|\--no-inactive\] \[\--status STATUS\]
\[\--pipe\] \[\--refresh REFRESH\] \[\--sort SORT\] \[\--reverse\]
\[\--type TYPE\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\]
\[\--no-header\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \`\`\` \#### Options \*
\`\--no-inactive\` (\`-I\`) Do not show inactive environments \*
\`\--status\` (expects a value) Filter environments by status (active,
inactive, dirty, paused, deleting). Values may be split by commas (e.g.
\"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--pipe\` Output a simple list of
environment IDs. \* \`\--refresh\` (expects a value) Whether to refresh
the list. \* \`\--sort\` (expects a value) A property to sort by \*
\`\--reverse\` Sort in reverse (descending) order \* \`\--type\`
(expects a value) Filter the list by environment type(s). Values may be
split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--format\`
(expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \*
\`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. Available
columns: id\*, title\*, status\*, type\*, created, machine_name, updated
(\* = default columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder
for the default columns. The % or \* characters may be used as a
wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`environment:logs\` Read an environment\'s logs Aliases: \`log\` \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun log \[\--lines LINES\] \[\--tail\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\]
\[\--worker WORKER\] \[-I\|\--instance INSTANCE\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\`
\#### Arguments \* \`type\`(optional) The log type, e.g. \"access\" or
\"error\" \#### Options \* \`\--lines\` (expects a value) The number of
lines to show \* \`\--tail\` Continuously tail the log \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value)
The remote application name \* \`\--worker\` (expects a value) A worker
name \* \`\--instance\` (\`-I\`) (expects a value) An instance ID \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \*
Display a choice of logs that can be read: \`\`\` upsun environment:logs
\`\`\` \* Read the deploy log: \`\`\` upsun environment:logs deploy
\`\`\` \* Read the access log continuously: \`\`\` upsun
environment:logs access \--tail \`\`\` \* Read the last 500 lines of the
cron log: \`\`\` upsun environment:logs cron \--lines 500 \`\`\` \##
\`environment:merge\` Merge an environment Aliases: \`merge\` \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun merge \[\--resources-init RESOURCES-INIT\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\]
\[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` This command will initiate a Git merge
of the specified environment into its parent environment. \####
Arguments \* \`environment\`(optional) The environment to merge \####
Options \* \`\--resources-init\` (expects a value) Set the resources to
use for new services: child, default, minimum or manual. If not set,
\"child\" will be used. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Merge the
environment \"sprint-2\" into its parent: \`\`\` upsun environment:merge
sprint-2 \`\`\` \## \`environment:pause\` Pause an environment \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun environment:pause \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \`\`\`
Pausing an environment helps to reduce resource consumption and carbon
emissions. The environment will be unavailable until it is resumed. No
data will be lost. \#### Options \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a
value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a
value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to
complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`environment:push\` Push code to an environment Aliases: \`push\` \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun push \[\--target TARGET\] \[-f\|\--force\]
\[\--force-with-lease\] \[-u\|\--set-upstream\] \[\--activate\]
\[\--parent PARENT\] \[\--type TYPE\] \[\--no-clone-parent\]
\[\--resources-init RESOURCES-INIT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--\] \[

\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`source\`(optional) The Git source ref,
e.g. a branch name or a commit hash. \#### Options \* \`\--target\`
(expects a value) The target branch name. Defaults to the current
branch. \* \`\--force\` (\`-f\`) Allow non-fast-forward updates \*
\`\--force-with-lease\` Allow non-fast-forward updates, if the
remote-tracking branch is up to date \* \`\--set-upstream\` (\`-u\`) Set
the target environment as the upstream for the source branch. This will
also set the target project as the remote for the local repository. \*
\`\--activate\` Activate the environment. Paused environments will be
resumed. This will ensure the environment is active even if no changes
were pushed. \* \`\--parent\` (expects a value) Set the environment
parent (only used with \--activate) \* \`\--type\` (expects a value) Set
the environment type (only used with \--activate ) \*
\`\--no-clone-parent\` Do not clone the parent branch\'s data (only used
with \--activate) \* \`\--resources-init\` (expects a value) Set the
resources to use for new services: parent, default, minimum, or manual.
Currently the default is \"default\" but this will change to \"parent\"
in future. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to
complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Push code to the
current environment: \`\`\` upsun environment:push \`\`\` \* Push code,
without waiting for deployment: \`\`\` upsun environment:push \--no-wait
\`\`\` \* Push code, branching or activating the environment as a child
of \'develop\': \`\`\` upsun environment:push \--activate \--parent
develop \`\`\` \## \`environment:redeploy\` Redeploy an environment
Aliases: \`redeploy\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun redeploy \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\]
\[\--wait\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a
value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a
value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to
complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`environment:relationships\` Show an environment\'s relationships
Aliases: \`relationships\`, \`rel\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
relationships \[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\] \[\--refresh\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-A\|\--app APP\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`environment\`(optional) The environment \#### Options \*
\`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value) The relationship property to
view \* \`\--refresh\` Whether to refresh the relationships \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\`
(\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* View all the
current environment\'s relationships: \`\`\` upsun
environment:relationships \`\`\` \* View the \'main\' environment\'s
relationships: \`\`\` upsun environment:relationships main \`\`\` \*
View the \'main\' environment\'s database port: \`\`\` upsun
environment:relationships main \--property database.0.port \`\`\` \##
\`environment:resume\` Resume a paused environment \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun environment:resume \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \`\`\` \#### Options \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--no-wait\`
(\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait
for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display
this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`environment:scp\` Copy files
to and from an environment using scp Aliases: \`scp\` \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun scp \[-r\|\--recursive\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \[\--worker
WORKER\] \[-I\|\--instance INSTANCE\] \[\--\] \[\]\... \`\`\` \####
Arguments \* \`files\`(optional; multiple values allowed) Files to copy.
Use the remote: prefix to define remote locations. \#### Options \*
\`\--recursive\` (\`-r\`) Recursively copy entire directories \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\`
(\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \* \`\--worker\`
(expects a value) A worker name \* \`\--instance\` (\`-I\`) (expects a
value) An instance ID \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message
\* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages
\* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Copy local files a.txt and
b.txt to remote mount var/files: \`\`\` upsun environment:scp a.txt
b.txt remote:var/files \`\`\` \* Copy remote files c.txt to current
directory: \`\`\` upsun environment:scp remote:c.txt . \`\`\` \* Copy
subdirectory dump/ to remote mount var/files: \`\`\` upsun
environment:scp -r dump remote:var/logs \`\`\` \* Copy files inside
subdirectory dump/ to remote mount var/files: \`\`\` upsun
environment:scp -r dump/\* remote:var/logs \`\`\` \##
\`environment:ssh\` SSH to the current environment Aliases: \`ssh\` \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun ssh \[\--pipe\] \[\--all\] \[-o\|\--option OPTION\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-A\|\--app APP\] \[\--worker WORKER\] \[-I\|\--instance INSTANCE\]
\[\--\] \[\]\... \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`cmd\`(optional; multiple
values allowed) A command to run on the environment. \#### Options \*
\`\--pipe\` Output the SSH URL only. \* \`\--all\` Output all SSH URLs
(for every app). \* \`\--option\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) Pass an
extra option to SSH \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \*
\`\--worker\` (expects a value) A worker name \* \`\--instance\`
(\`-I\`) (expects a value) An instance ID \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Open a shell over
SSH: \`\`\` upsun environment:ssh \`\`\` \* Pass an extra option to SSH:
\`\`\` upsun environment:ssh -o \'RequestTTY force\' \`\`\` \* List
files: \`\`\` upsun environment:ssh ls \`\`\` \* Monitor the app log
(use \'\--\' before flags): \`\`\` upsun environment:ssh tail
/var/log/app.log \-- -n50 -f \`\`\` \* Display relationships (use quotes
for complex syntax): \`\`\` upsun environment:ssh \'echo
\$PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS \| base64 \--decode\' \`\`\` \##
\`environment:synchronize\` Synchronize an environment\'s code, data
and/or resources from its parent Aliases: \`sync\` \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun sync \[\--rebase\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\]\... \`\`\`
This command synchronizes to a child environment from its parent
environment. Synchronizing \"code\" means there will be a Git merge from
the parent to the child. Synchronizing \"data\" means that all files in
all services (including static files, databases, logs, search indices,
etc.) will be copied from the parent to the child. Synchronizing
\"resources\" means that the parent environment\'s resource sizes will
be used for all corresponding apps and services in the child
environment. \#### Arguments \* \`synchronize\`(optional; multiple
values allowed) List what to synchronize: \"code\", \"data\", and/or
\"resources\". \#### Options \* \`\--rebase\` Synchronize code by
rebasing instead of merging \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value)
The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value)
The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to
complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \*
Synchronize data from the parent environment: \`\`\` upsun
environment:synchronize data \`\`\` \* Synchronize code and data from
the parent environment: \`\`\` upsun environment:synchronize code data
\`\`\` \* Synchronize code, data and resources from the parent
environment: \`\`\` upsun environment:synchronize code data resources
\`\`\` \## \`environment:url\` Get the public URLs of an environment
Aliases: \`url\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun url \[-1\|\--primary\]
\[\--browser BROWSER\] \[\--pipe\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \`\`\` \#### Options \*
\`\--primary\` (\`-1\`) Only return the URL for the primary route \*
\`\--browser\` (expects a value) The browser to use to open the URL. Set
0 for none. \* \`\--pipe\` Output the URL to stdout. \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this
help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Give a choice of
URLs to open (or print all URLs if there is no browser): \`\`\` upsun
environment:url \`\`\` \* Print all URLs: \`\`\` upsun environment:url
\--pipe \`\`\` \* Print and/or open the primary route URL: \`\`\` upsun
environment:url \--primary \`\`\` \* Print the primary route URL: \`\`\`
upsun environment:url \--primary \--pipe \`\`\` \##
\`environment:xdebug\` Open a tunnel to Xdebug on the environment
Aliases: \`xdebug\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun xdebug \[\--port PORT\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-A\|\--app APP\] \[\--worker WORKER\] \[-I\|\--instance INSTANCE\]
\`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--port\` (expects a value) The local port \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\`
(\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \* \`\--worker\`
(expects a value) A worker name \* \`\--instance\` (\`-I\`) (expects a
value) An instance ID \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message
\* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages
\* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Connect to Xdebug on the
environment, listening locally on port 9000.: \`\`\` upsun
environment:xdebug \`\`\` \## \`integration:activity:get\` View detailed
information on a single integration activity \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
integration:activity:get \[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--format FORMAT\]
\[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\]
\[\--\] \[\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`integration\`(optional) An
integration ID. Leave blank to choose from a list. \*
\`activity\`(optional) The activity ID. Defaults to the most recent
integration activity. \#### Options \* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects
a value) The property to view \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a
value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a
value) \[Deprecated option, not used\] \* \`\--format\` (expects a
value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\`
(\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. The % or \* characters
may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g.
\"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the
table header \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a
PHP date format string) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`integration:activity:list\` Get a list
of activities for an integration Aliases: \`integration:activities\`
\### Usage \`\`\` upsun integration:activities \[\--type TYPE\]
\[-x\|\--exclude-type EXCLUDE-TYPE\] \[\--limit LIMIT\] \[\--start
START\] \[\--state STATE\] \[\--result RESULT\] \[-i\|\--incomplete\]
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\]
\[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`id\`(optional) An
integration ID. Leave blank to choose from a list. \#### Options \*
\`\--type\` (expects a value) Filter activities by type. Values may be
split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--exclude-type\` (\`-x\`) (expects a value) Exclude activities by
type. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace.
The % or \* characters can be used as a wildcard to exclude types. \*
\`\--limit\` (expects a value) Limit the number of results displayed \*
\`\--start\` (expects a value) Only activities created before this date
will be listed \* \`\--state\` (expects a value) Filter activities by
state. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace.
\* \`\--result\` (expects a value) Filter activities by result \*
\`\--incomplete\` (\`-i\`) Only list incomplete activities \*
\`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or
plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display.
Available columns: id\*, created\*, description\*, type\*, state\*,
result\*, completed, progress, time_build, time_deploy, time_execute,
time_wait (\* = default columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a
placeholder for the default columns. The % or \* characters may be used
as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date format
string) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or
URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) \[Deprecated
option, not used\] \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`integration:activity:log\` Display the log for an integration activity
\### Usage \`\`\` upsun integration:activity:log \[-t\|\--timestamps\]
\[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--\] \[\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`integration\`(optional) An integration ID. Leave blank to choose from
a list. \* \`activity\`(optional) The activity ID. Defaults to the most
recent integration activity. \#### Options \* \`\--timestamps\` (\`-t\`)
Display a timestamp next to each message \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a
value) The date format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) \[Deprecated option, not used\] \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`integration:add\`
Add an integration to the project \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
integration:add \[\--type TYPE\] \[\--base-url BASE-URL\]
\[\--bitbucket-url BITBUCKET-URL\] \[\--username USERNAME\] \[\--token
TOKEN\] \[\--key KEY\] \[\--secret SECRET\] \[\--license-key
LICENSE-KEY\] \[\--server-project SERVER-PROJECT\] \[\--repository
REPOSITORY\] \[\--build-merge-requests BUILD-MERGE-REQUESTS\]
\[\--build-pull-requests BUILD-PULL-REQUESTS\]
\[\--build-draft-pull-requests BUILD-DRAFT-PULL-REQUESTS\]
\[\--build-pull-requests-post-merge BUILD-PULL-REQUESTS-POST-MERGE\]
\[\--build-wip-merge-requests BUILD-WIP-MERGE-REQUESTS\]
\[\--merge-requests-clone-parent-data MERGE-REQUESTS-CLONE-PARENT-DATA\]
\[\--pull-requests-clone-parent-data PULL-REQUESTS-CLONE-PARENT-DATA\]
\[\--resync-pull-requests RESYNC-PULL-REQUESTS\] \[\--fetch-branches
FETCH-BRANCHES\] \[\--prune-branches PRUNE-BRANCHES\]
\[\--resources-init RESOURCES-INIT\] \[\--url URL\] \[\--shared-key
SHARED-KEY\] \[\--file FILE\] \[\--events EVENTS\] \[\--states STATES\]
\[\--environments ENVIRONMENTS\] \[\--excluded-environments
EXCLUDED-ENVIRONMENTS\] \[\--from-address FROM-ADDRESS\] \[\--recipients
RECIPIENTS\] \[\--channel CHANNEL\] \[\--routing-key ROUTING-KEY\]
\[\--category CATEGORY\] \[\--index INDEX\] \[\--sourcetype SOURCETYPE\]
\[\--protocol PROTOCOL\] \[\--syslog-host SYSLOG-HOST\] \[\--syslog-port
SYSLOG-PORT\] \[\--facility FACILITY\] \[\--message-format
MESSAGE-FORMAT\] \[\--auth-mode AUTH-MODE\] \[\--auth-token AUTH-TOKEN\]
\[\--verify-tls VERIFY-TLS\] \[\--header HEADER\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \`\`\` \#### Options \*
\`\--type\` (expects a value) The integration type (\'bitbucket\',
\'bitbucket_server\', \'github\', \'gitlab\', \'webhook\',
\'health.email\', \'health.pagerduty\', \'health.slack\',
\'health.webhook\', \'httplog\', \'script\', \'newrelic\', \'splunk\',
\'sumologic\', \'syslog\') \* \`\--base-url\` (expects a value) The base
URL of the server installation \* \`\--bitbucket-url\` (expects a value)
The base URL of the Bitbucket Server installation \* \`\--username\`
(expects a value) The Bitbucket Server username \* \`\--token\` (expects
a value) An authentication or access token for the integration \*
\`\--key\` (expects a value) A Bitbucket OAuth consumer key \*
\`\--secret\` (expects a value) A Bitbucket OAuth consumer secret \*
\`\--license-key\` (expects a value) The New Relic Logs license key \*
\`\--server-project\` (expects a value) The project (e.g.
\'namespace/repo\') \* \`\--repository\` (expects a value) The
repository to track (e.g. \'owner/repository\') \*
\`\--build-merge-requests\` (expects a value) GitLab: build merge
requests as environments \* \`\--build-pull-requests\` (expects a value)
Build every pull request as an environment \*
\`\--build-draft-pull-requests\` (expects a value) Build draft pull
requests \* \`\--build-pull-requests-post-merge\` (expects a value)
Build pull requests based on their post-merge state \*
\`\--build-wip-merge-requests\` (expects a value) GitLab: build WIP
merge requests \* \`\--merge-requests-clone-parent-data\` (expects a
value) GitLab: clone data for merge requests \*
\`\--pull-requests-clone-parent-data\` (expects a value) Clone the
parent environment\'s data for pull requests \*
\`\--resync-pull-requests\` (expects a value) Re-sync pull request
environment data on every build \* \`\--fetch-branches\` (expects a
value) Fetch all branches from the remote (as inactive environments) \*
\`\--prune-branches\` (expects a value) Delete branches that do not
exist on the remote \* \`\--resources-init\` (expects a value) The
resources to use when initializing a new service (\'minimum\',
\'default\', \'manual\', \'parent\') \* \`\--url\` (expects a value) The
URL or API endpoint for the integration \* \`\--shared-key\` (expects a
value) Webhook: the JWS shared secret key \* \`\--file\` (expects a
value) The name of a local file that contains the script to upload \*
\`\--events\` (expects a value) A list of events to act on, e.g.
environment.push \* \`\--states\` (expects a value) A list of states to
act on, e.g. pending, in_progress, complete \* \`\--environments\`
(expects a value) The environment IDs to include \*
\`\--excluded-environments\` (expects a value) The environment IDs to
exclude \* \`\--from-address\` (expects a value) \[Optional\] Custom
From address for alert emails \* \`\--recipients\` (expects a value) The
recipient email address(es) \* \`\--channel\` (expects a value) The
Slack channel \* \`\--routing-key\` (expects a value) The PagerDuty
routing key \* \`\--category\` (expects a value) The Sumo Logic
category, used for filtering \* \`\--index\` (expects a value) The
Splunk index \* \`\--sourcetype\` (expects a value) The Splunk event
source type \* \`\--protocol\` (expects a value) Syslog transport
protocol (\'tcp\', \'udp\', \'tls\') \* \`\--syslog-host\` (expects a
value) Syslog relay/collector host \* \`\--syslog-port\` (expects a
value) Syslog relay/collector port \* \`\--facility\` (expects a value)
Syslog facility \* \`\--message-format\` (expects a value) Syslog
message format (\'rfc3164\' or \'rfc5424\') \* \`\--auth-mode\` (expects
a value) Authentication mode (\'prefix\' or \'structured_data\') \*
\`\--auth-token\` (expects a value) Authentication token \*
\`\--verify-tls\` (expects a value) Whether HTTPS certificate
verification should be enabled (recommended) \* \`\--header\` (expects a
value) HTTP header(s) to use in POST requests. Separate names and values
with a colon (:). \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the
operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete
(default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Add an integration with a GitHub repository: \`\`\` upsun
integration:add \--type github \--repository myuser/example-repo
\--token 9218376e14c2797e0d06e8d2f918d45f \--fetch-branches 0 \`\`\` \*
Add an integration with a GitLab repository: \`\`\` upsun
integration:add \--type gitlab \--server-project mygroup/example-repo
\--token 22fe4d70dfbc20e4f668568a0b5422e2 \--base-url
https://gitlab.example.com \`\`\` \## \`integration:delete\` Delete an
integration from a project \### Usage \`\`\` upsun integration:delete
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\]
\`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`id\`(optional) The integration ID. Leave
blank to choose from a list. \#### Options \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`)
(expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do
not wait for the operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the
operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this
help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`integration:get\` View
details of an integration \### Usage \`\`\` upsun integration:get
\[-P\|\--property \[PROPERTY\]\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns
COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[\--\] \[\]
\`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`id\`(optional) An integration ID. Leave
blank to choose from a list. \#### Options \* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`)
(expects a value) The integration property to view \* \`\--format\`
(expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \*
\`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. The % or
\* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas
(e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output
the table header \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`integration:list\` View a list of project integration(s) Aliases:
\`integrations\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun integrations \[-t\|\--type
TYPE\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--type\` (\`-t\`)
(expects a value) Filter by type \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The
output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`)
(expects a value) Columns to display. Available columns: id, summary,
type. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be
split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\`
Do not output the table header \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a
value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`integration:update\` Update an
integration \### Usage \`\`\` upsun integration:update \[\--type TYPE\]
\[\--base-url BASE-URL\] \[\--bitbucket-url BITBUCKET-URL\]
\[\--username USERNAME\] \[\--token TOKEN\] \[\--key KEY\] \[\--secret
SECRET\] \[\--license-key LICENSE-KEY\] \[\--server-project
SERVER-PROJECT\] \[\--repository REPOSITORY\] \[\--build-merge-requests
BUILD-MERGE-REQUESTS\] \[\--build-pull-requests BUILD-PULL-REQUESTS\]
\[\--build-draft-pull-requests BUILD-DRAFT-PULL-REQUESTS\]
\[\--build-pull-requests-post-merge BUILD-PULL-REQUESTS-POST-MERGE\]
\[\--build-wip-merge-requests BUILD-WIP-MERGE-REQUESTS\]
\[\--merge-requests-clone-parent-data MERGE-REQUESTS-CLONE-PARENT-DATA\]
\[\--pull-requests-clone-parent-data PULL-REQUESTS-CLONE-PARENT-DATA\]
\[\--resync-pull-requests RESYNC-PULL-REQUESTS\] \[\--fetch-branches
FETCH-BRANCHES\] \[\--prune-branches PRUNE-BRANCHES\]
\[\--resources-init RESOURCES-INIT\] \[\--url URL\] \[\--shared-key
SHARED-KEY\] \[\--file FILE\] \[\--events EVENTS\] \[\--states STATES\]
\[\--environments ENVIRONMENTS\] \[\--excluded-environments
EXCLUDED-ENVIRONMENTS\] \[\--from-address FROM-ADDRESS\] \[\--recipients
RECIPIENTS\] \[\--channel CHANNEL\] \[\--routing-key ROUTING-KEY\]
\[\--category CATEGORY\] \[\--index INDEX\] \[\--sourcetype SOURCETYPE\]
\[\--protocol PROTOCOL\] \[\--syslog-host SYSLOG-HOST\] \[\--syslog-port
SYSLOG-PORT\] \[\--facility FACILITY\] \[\--message-format
MESSAGE-FORMAT\] \[\--auth-mode AUTH-MODE\] \[\--auth-token AUTH-TOKEN\]
\[\--verify-tls VERIFY-TLS\] \[\--header HEADER\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \####
Arguments \* \`id\`(optional) The ID of the integration to update \####
Options \* \`\--type\` (expects a value) The integration type
(\'bitbucket\', \'bitbucket_server\', \'github\', \'gitlab\',
\'webhook\', \'health.email\', \'health.pagerduty\', \'health.slack\',
\'health.webhook\', \'httplog\', \'script\', \'newrelic\', \'splunk\',
\'sumologic\', \'syslog\') \* \`\--base-url\` (expects a value) The base
URL of the server installation \* \`\--bitbucket-url\` (expects a value)
The base URL of the Bitbucket Server installation \* \`\--username\`
(expects a value) The Bitbucket Server username \* \`\--token\` (expects
a value) An authentication or access token for the integration \*
\`\--key\` (expects a value) A Bitbucket OAuth consumer key \*
\`\--secret\` (expects a value) A Bitbucket OAuth consumer secret \*
\`\--license-key\` (expects a value) The New Relic Logs license key \*
\`\--server-project\` (expects a value) The project (e.g.
\'namespace/repo\') \* \`\--repository\` (expects a value) The
repository to track (e.g. \'owner/repository\') \*
\`\--build-merge-requests\` (expects a value) GitLab: build merge
requests as environments \* \`\--build-pull-requests\` (expects a value)
Build every pull request as an environment \*
\`\--build-draft-pull-requests\` (expects a value) Build draft pull
requests \* \`\--build-pull-requests-post-merge\` (expects a value)
Build pull requests based on their post-merge state \*
\`\--build-wip-merge-requests\` (expects a value) GitLab: build WIP
merge requests \* \`\--merge-requests-clone-parent-data\` (expects a
value) GitLab: clone data for merge requests \*
\`\--pull-requests-clone-parent-data\` (expects a value) Clone the
parent environment\'s data for pull requests \*
\`\--resync-pull-requests\` (expects a value) Re-sync pull request
environment data on every build \* \`\--fetch-branches\` (expects a
value) Fetch all branches from the remote (as inactive environments) \*
\`\--prune-branches\` (expects a value) Delete branches that do not
exist on the remote \* \`\--resources-init\` (expects a value) The
resources to use when initializing a new service (\'minimum\',
\'default\', \'manual\', \'parent\') \* \`\--url\` (expects a value) The
URL or API endpoint for the integration \* \`\--shared-key\` (expects a
value) Webhook: the JWS shared secret key \* \`\--file\` (expects a
value) The name of a local file that contains the script to upload \*
\`\--events\` (expects a value) A list of events to act on, e.g.
environment.push \* \`\--states\` (expects a value) A list of states to
act on, e.g. pending, in_progress, complete \* \`\--environments\`
(expects a value) The environment IDs to include \*
\`\--excluded-environments\` (expects a value) The environment IDs to
exclude \* \`\--from-address\` (expects a value) \[Optional\] Custom
From address for alert emails \* \`\--recipients\` (expects a value) The
recipient email address(es) \* \`\--channel\` (expects a value) The
Slack channel \* \`\--routing-key\` (expects a value) The PagerDuty
routing key \* \`\--category\` (expects a value) The Sumo Logic
category, used for filtering \* \`\--index\` (expects a value) The
Splunk index \* \`\--sourcetype\` (expects a value) The Splunk event
source type \* \`\--protocol\` (expects a value) Syslog transport
protocol (\'tcp\', \'udp\', \'tls\') \* \`\--syslog-host\` (expects a
value) Syslog relay/collector host \* \`\--syslog-port\` (expects a
value) Syslog relay/collector port \* \`\--facility\` (expects a value)
Syslog facility \* \`\--message-format\` (expects a value) Syslog
message format (\'rfc3164\' or \'rfc5424\') \* \`\--auth-mode\` (expects
a value) Authentication mode (\'prefix\' or \'structured_data\') \*
\`\--auth-token\` (expects a value) Authentication token \*
\`\--verify-tls\` (expects a value) Whether HTTPS certificate
verification should be enabled (recommended) \* \`\--header\` (expects a
value) HTTP header(s) to use in POST requests. Separate names and values
with a colon (:). \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the
operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete
(default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Switch on the \"fetch branches\" option for a specific
integration: \`\`\` upsun integration:update ZXhhbXBsZSB
\--fetch-branches 1 \`\`\` \## \`integration:validate\` Validate an
existing integration \### Usage \`\`\` upsun integration:validate
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` This command allows you
to check whether an integration is valid. An exit code of 0 means the
integration is valid, while 4 means it is invalid. Any other exit code
indicates an unexpected error. Integrations are validated automatically
on creation and on update. However, because they involve external
resources, it is possible for a valid integration to become invalid. For
example, an access token may be revoked, or an external repository may
be deleted. \#### Arguments \* \`id\`(optional) An integration ID. Leave
blank to choose from a list. \#### Options \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`)
(expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display
this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`local:dir\` Find the local
project root Aliases: \`dir\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun dir \[\] \`\`\`
\#### Arguments \* \`subdir\`(optional) The subdirectory to find
(\'local\', \'web\' or \'shared\') \#### Options \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`metrics:all\` Show CPU, disk
and memory metrics for an environment Aliases: \`metrics\`, \`met\` \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun metrics \[-B\|\--bytes\] \[-r\|\--range RANGE\]
\[-i\|\--interval INTERVAL\] \[\--to TO\] \[-1\|\--latest\]
\[-s\|\--service SERVICE\] \[\--type TYPE\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns
COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \`\`\` \#### Options
\* \`\--bytes\` (\`-B\`) Show sizes in bytes \* \`\--range\` (\`-r\`)
(expects a value) The time range. Metrics will be loaded for this
duration until the end time (\--to). You can specify units: hours (h),
minutes (m), or seconds (s). Minimum 5m, maximum 8h or more (depending
on the project), default 10m. \* \`\--interval\` (\`-i\`) (expects a
value) The time interval. Defaults to a division of the range. You can
specify units: hours (h), minutes (m), or seconds (s). Minimum 1m. \*
\`\--to\` (expects a value) The end time. Defaults to now. \*
\`\--latest\` (\`-1\`) Show only the latest single data point \*
\`\--service\` (\`-s\`) (expects a value) Filter by service or
application name The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. \*
\`\--type\` (expects a value) Filter by service type (if \--service is
not provided). The version is not required. The % or \* characters may
be used as a wildcard. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv,
or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to
display. Available columns: timestamp\*, service\*, cpu_percent\*,
mem_percent\*, disk_percent\*, tmp_disk_percent\*, cpu_limit, cpu_used,
disk_limit, disk_used, inodes_limit, inodes_percent, inodes_used,
mem_limit, mem_used, tmp_disk_limit, tmp_disk_used, tmp_inodes_limit,
tmp_inodes_percent, tmp_inodes_used, type (\* = default columns). The
character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for the default columns.
The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by
commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not
output the table header \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date
format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display
this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Show metrics for
the last 10m: \`\`\` upsun metrics:all \`\`\` \* Show metrics in
five-minute intervals over the last hour: \`\`\` upsun metrics:all -i 5m
-r 1h \`\`\` \* Show metrics for all SQL services: \`\`\` upsun
metrics:all \--type mariadb,%sql \`\`\` \## \`metrics:cpu\` Show CPU
usage of an environment Aliases: \`cpu\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun cpu
\[-r\|\--range RANGE\] \[-i\|\--interval INTERVAL\] \[\--to TO\]
\[-1\|\--latest\] \[-s\|\--service SERVICE\] \[\--type TYPE\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\]
\[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--range\` (\`-r\`)
(expects a value) The time range. Metrics will be loaded for this
duration until the end time (\--to). You can specify units: hours (h),
minutes (m), or seconds (s). Minimum 5m, maximum 8h or more (depending
on the project), default 10m. \* \`\--interval\` (\`-i\`) (expects a
value) The time interval. Defaults to a division of the range. You can
specify units: hours (h), minutes (m), or seconds (s). Minimum 1m. \*
\`\--to\` (expects a value) The end time. Defaults to now. \*
\`\--latest\` (\`-1\`) Show only the latest single data point \*
\`\--service\` (\`-s\`) (expects a value) Filter by service or
application name The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. \*
\`\--type\` (expects a value) Filter by service type (if \--service is
not provided). The version is not required. The % or \* characters may
be used as a wildcard. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv,
or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to
display. Available columns: timestamp\*, service\*, used\*, limit\*,
percent\*, type (\* = default columns). The character \"+\" can be used
as a placeholder for the default columns. The % or \* characters may be
used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\")
and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date format
string) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`metrics:disk-usage\` Show disk usage of an environment Aliases:
\`disk\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun disk \[-B\|\--bytes\] \[-r\|\--range
RANGE\] \[-i\|\--interval INTERVAL\] \[\--to TO\] \[-1\|\--latest\]
\[-s\|\--service SERVICE\] \[\--type TYPE\] \[\--tmp\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--format FORMAT\]
\[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\]
\`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--bytes\` (\`-B\`) Show sizes in bytes \*
\`\--range\` (\`-r\`) (expects a value) The time range. Metrics will be
loaded for this duration until the end time (\--to). You can specify
units: hours (h), minutes (m), or seconds (s). Minimum 5m, maximum 8h or
more (depending on the project), default 10m. \* \`\--interval\`
(\`-i\`) (expects a value) The time interval. Defaults to a division of
the range. You can specify units: hours (h), minutes (m), or seconds
(s). Minimum 1m. \* \`\--to\` (expects a value) The end time. Defaults
to now. \* \`\--latest\` (\`-1\`) Show only the latest single data point
\* \`\--service\` (\`-s\`) (expects a value) Filter by service or
application name The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. \*
\`\--type\` (expects a value) Filter by service type (if \--service is
not provided). The version is not required. The % or \* characters may
be used as a wildcard. \* \`\--tmp\` Report temporary disk usage (shows
columns: timestamp, service, tmp_used, tmp_limit, tmp_percent,
tmp_ipercent) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project
ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv,
or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to
display. Available columns: timestamp\*, service\*, used\*, limit\*,
percent\*, ipercent\*, tmp_percent\*, ilimit, iused, tmp_ilimit,
tmp_ipercent, tmp_iused, tmp_limit, tmp_used, type (\* = default
columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for the
default columns. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--date-fmt\`
(expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date format string) \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`metrics:memory\`
Show memory usage of an environment Aliases: \`mem\`, \`memory\` \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun mem \[-B\|\--bytes\] \[-r\|\--range RANGE\]
\[-i\|\--interval INTERVAL\] \[\--to TO\] \[-1\|\--latest\]
\[-s\|\--service SERVICE\] \[\--type TYPE\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns
COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \`\`\` \#### Options
\* \`\--bytes\` (\`-B\`) Show sizes in bytes \* \`\--range\` (\`-r\`)
(expects a value) The time range. Metrics will be loaded for this
duration until the end time (\--to). You can specify units: hours (h),
minutes (m), or seconds (s). Minimum 5m, maximum 8h or more (depending
on the project), default 10m. \* \`\--interval\` (\`-i\`) (expects a
value) The time interval. Defaults to a division of the range. You can
specify units: hours (h), minutes (m), or seconds (s). Minimum 1m. \*
\`\--to\` (expects a value) The end time. Defaults to now. \*
\`\--latest\` (\`-1\`) Show only the latest single data point \*
\`\--service\` (\`-s\`) (expects a value) Filter by service or
application name The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. \*
\`\--type\` (expects a value) Filter by service type (if \--service is
not provided). The version is not required. The % or \* characters may
be used as a wildcard. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv,
or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to
display. Available columns: timestamp\*, service\*, used\*, limit\*,
percent\*, type (\* = default columns). The character \"+\" can be used
as a placeholder for the default columns. The % or \* characters may be
used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\")
and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date format
string) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`mount:download\` Download files from a mount, using rsync \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun mount:download \[-a\|\--all\] \[-m\|\--mount MOUNT\]
\[\--target TARGET\] \[\--source-path\] \[\--delete\] \[\--exclude
EXCLUDE\] \[\--include INCLUDE\] \[\--refresh\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\]
\[\--worker WORKER\] \[-I\|\--instance INSTANCE\] \`\`\` \#### Options
\* \`\--all\` (\`-a\`) Download from all mounts \* \`\--mount\` (\`-m\`)
(expects a value) The mount (as an app-relative path) \* \`\--target\`
(expects a value) The directory to which files will be downloaded. If
\--all is used, the mount path will be appended \* \`\--source-path\`
Use the mount\'s source path (rather than the mount path) as a
subdirectory of the target, when \--all is used \* \`\--delete\` Whether
to delete extraneous files in the target directory \* \`\--exclude\`
(expects a value) File(s) to exclude from the download (pattern) \*
\`\--include\` (expects a value) File(s) not to exclude (pattern) \*
\`\--refresh\` Whether to refresh the cache \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`)
(expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`)
(expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s
default environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote
application name \* \`\--worker\` (expects a value) A worker name \*
\`\--instance\` (\`-I\`) (expects a value) An instance ID \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`mount:list\` Get a list of
mounts Aliases: \`mounts\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun mounts \[\--paths\]
\[\--refresh\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\]
\[\--no-header\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \[\--worker WORKER\] \[-I\|\--instance
INSTANCE\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--paths\` Output the mount paths
only (one per line) \* \`\--refresh\` Whether to refresh the cache \*
\`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or
plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display.
Available columns: definition, path. The % or \* characters may be used
as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\`
(\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \* \`\--worker\`
(expects a value) A worker name \* \`\--instance\` (\`-I\`) (expects a
value) An instance ID \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message
\* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages
\* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`mount:upload\` Upload files to a mount,
using rsync \### Usage \`\`\` upsun mount:upload \[\--source SOURCE\]
\[-m\|\--mount MOUNT\] \[\--delete\] \[\--exclude EXCLUDE\] \[\--include
INCLUDE\] \[\--refresh\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \[\--worker WORKER\] \[-I\|\--instance
INSTANCE\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--source\` (expects a value) A
directory containing files to upload \* \`\--mount\` (\`-m\`) (expects a
value) The mount (as an app-relative path) \* \`\--delete\` Whether to
delete extraneous files in the mount \* \`\--exclude\` (expects a value)
File(s) to exclude from the upload (pattern) \* \`\--include\` (expects
a value) File(s) not to exclude (pattern) \* \`\--refresh\` Whether to
refresh the cache \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \*
\`\--worker\` (expects a value) A worker name \* \`\--instance\`
(\`-I\`) (expects a value) An instance ID \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`operation:list\` List runtime
operations on an environment Aliases: \`ops\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
ops \[\--full\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \[\--worker WORKER\] \[\--format
FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \####
Options \* \`\--full\` Do not limit the length of command to display.
The default limit is 24 lines. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a
value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a
value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote
application name \* \`\--worker\` (expects a value) A worker name \*
\`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or
plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display.
Available columns: service\*, name\*, start\*, role, stop (\* = default
columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for the
default columns. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`operation:run\` Run an
operation on the environment \### Usage \`\`\` upsun operation:run
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-A\|\--app APP\] \[\--worker WORKER\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\]
\[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`operation\`(optional) The
operation name \#### Options \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a
value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a
value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote
application name \* \`\--worker\` (expects a value) A worker name \*
\`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`organization:billing:address\` View or change an organization\'s
billing address \### Usage \`\`\` upsun organization:billing:address
\[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\]
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[\--\]
\[\] \[\] \[\]\... \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`property\`(optional) The
name of a property to view or change \* \`value\`(optional) A new value
for the property \* \`properties\`(optional; multiple values allowed)
Additional property/value pairs \#### Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`)
(expects a value) The organization name (or ID) \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL, to auto-select the
organization if \--org is not used \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value)
The date format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--format\` (expects
a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\`
(\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. The % or \* characters
may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g.
\"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the
table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`organization:billing:profile\` View or change an organization\'s
billing profile \### Usage \`\`\` upsun organization:billing:profile
\[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\]
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[\--\]
\[\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`property\`(optional) The name of a
property to view or change \* \`value\`(optional) A new value for the
property \#### Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The
organization name (or ID) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value)
The project ID or URL, to auto-select the organization if \--org is not
used \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date
format string) \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format:
table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value)
Columns to display. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`organization:create\` Create
a new organization \### Usage \`\`\` upsun organization:create
\[\--label LABEL\] \[\--name NAME\] \[\--country COUNTRY\] \`\`\`
Organizations allow you to manage your Upsun projects, users and
billing. Projects are owned by organizations. You can add other users to
your organization, for collaboratively managing the organization as well
as its projects and billing information. Access to individual projects
(API and SSH) is managed separately, for now. \#### Options \*
\`\--label\` (expects a value) The full name of the organization, e.g.
\"ACME Inc.\" \* \`\--name\` (expects a value) The organization machine
name, used for URL paths and similar purposes. \* \`\--country\`
(expects a value) The organization country. Used as the default for the
billing address. \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`organization:delete\` Delete an organization \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
organization:delete \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \`\`\`
\#### Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The organization
name (or ID) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID
or URL, to auto-select the organization if \--org is not used \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`organization:info\` View or change organization details \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun organization:info \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns
COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[\--\] \[\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`property\`(optional) The name of a property to view or change \*
\`value\`(optional) A new value for the property \#### Options \*
\`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The organization name (or ID) \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL, to
auto-select the organization if \--org is not used \* \`\--date-fmt\`
(expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date format string) \*
\`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or
plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display.
The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by
commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not
output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* View the organization
\"acme\": \`\`\` upsun organization:info \--org acme \`\`\` \* Show the
organization\'s label: \`\`\` upsun organization:info \--org acme label
\`\`\` \* Change the organization label: \`\`\` upsun organization:info
\--org acme label \"ACME Inc.\" \`\`\` \## \`organization:list\` List
organizations Aliases: \`orgs\`, \`organizations\` \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun orgs \[\--my\] \[\--sort SORT\] \[\--reverse\] \[\--format
FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \####
Options \* \`\--my\` List only the organizations you own \* \`\--sort\`
(expects a value) An organization property to sort by \* \`\--reverse\`
Sort in reverse order \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output
format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a
value) Columns to display. Available columns: name\*, label\*,
owner_email\*, created_at, id, owner_id, owner_username, updated_at (\*
= default columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for
the default columns. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`organization:subscription:list\` List subscriptions within an
organization Aliases: \`org:subs\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun org:subs
\[\--page PAGE\] \[-c\|\--count COUNT\] \[-o\|\--org ORG\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[\--columns COLUMNS\]
\[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--page\` (expects a value)
Page number. This enables pagination, despite configuration or \--count.
\* \`\--count\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) The number of items to
display per page. Use 0 to disable pagination. Ignored if \--page is
specified. \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The organization
name (or ID) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID
or URL, to auto-select the organization if \--org is not used \*
\`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or
plain \* \`\--columns\` (expects a value) Columns to display. Available
columns: id\*, project_id\*, project_title\*, project_region\*,
created_at, updated_at (\* = default columns). The character \"+\" can
be used as a placeholder for the default columns. The % or \* characters
may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g.
\"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the
table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`organization:user:add\` Invite a user to an organization \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun organization:user:add \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[\--permission
PERMISSION\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`email\`(optional)
The email address of the user \#### Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`)
(expects a value) The organization name (or ID) \* \`\--permission\`
(expects a value) Permission(s) for the user on the organization. Valid
permissions are: billing, members, plans, projects:create, projects:list
\* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`organization:user:delete\` Remove a user from an organization \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun organization:user:delete \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[\--\]
\`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`email\`(required) The email address of the
user \#### Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The
organization name (or ID) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`organization:user:get\` View an
organization user \### Usage \`\`\` upsun organization:user:get
\[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\]
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[\--\]
\[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`email\`(optional) The email address of
the user \#### Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The
organization name (or ID) \* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value)
A property to display \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date
format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--format\` (expects a value)
The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`)
(expects a value) Columns to display. The % or \* characters may be used
as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`organization:user:list\` List organization users Aliases:
\`org:users\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun org:users \[-c\|\--count COUNT\]
\[\--sort SORT\] \[\--reverse\] \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[\--date-fmt
DATE-FMT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\]
\`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--count\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) The
number of items to display per page. Use 0 to disable pagination. \*
\`\--sort\` (expects a value) A property to sort by (created_at or
updated_at) \* \`\--reverse\` Reverse the sort order \* \`\--org\`
(\`-o\`) (expects a value) The organization name (or ID) \*
\`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date format
string) \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table,
csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (expects a value) Columns to
display. Available columns: id\*, email\*, owner\*, permissions\*,
created_at, first_name, last_name, mfa_enabled, sso_enabled, updated_at,
username (\* = default columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a
placeholder for the default columns. The % or \* characters may be used
as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`organization:user:projects\` List the projects a user can access
Aliases: \`oups\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun oups \[-o\|\--org ORG\]
\[\--list-all\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\]
\[\--no-header\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \####
Arguments \* \`email\`(optional) The email address of the user \####
Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The organization name
(or ID) \* \`\--list-all\` List access across all organizations \*
\`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or
plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display.
Available columns: project_id\*, project_title\*, roles\*, updated_at\*,
granted_at, organization_id, organization_label, organization_name,
region (\* = default columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a
placeholder for the default columns. The % or \* characters may be used
as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date format
string) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`organization:user:update\` Update an organization user \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun organization:user:update \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[\--permission
PERMISSION\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`email\`(optional)
The email address of the user \#### Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`)
(expects a value) The organization name (or ID) \* \`\--permission\`
(expects a value) Permission(s) for the user on the organization. Valid
permissions are: billing, members, plans, projects:create, projects:list
\* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`project:clear-build-cache\` Clear a project\'s build cache \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun project:clear-build-cache \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \`\`\`
\#### Options \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project
ID or URL \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`project:create\` Create a new project Aliases: \`create\` \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun create \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[\--title TITLE\] \[\--region
REGION\] \[\--plan PLAN\] \[\--environments ENVIRONMENTS\] \[\--storage
STORAGE\] \[\--default-branch DEFAULT-BRANCH\] \[\--set-remote\]
\[\--no-set-remote\] \`\`\` Use this command to create a new project. An
interactive form will be presented with the available options. If the
command is run non-interactively (with \--yes), the form will not be
displayed, and the \--region option will be required. A project
subscription will be requested, and then checked periodically (every 3
seconds) until the project has been activated, or until the process
times out (15 minutes by default). If known, the project ID will be
output to STDOUT. All other output will be sent to STDERR. \#### Options
\* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The organization name (or ID)
\* \`\--title\` (expects a value) The initial project title \*
\`\--region\` (expects a value) The region where the project will be
hosted. Get a 3% discount on resources for regions with a carbon
intensity of less than 100 gCO2eq/kWh. \* \`\--plan\` (expects a value)
The subscription plan \* \`\--environments\` (expects a value) The
number of environments \* \`\--storage\` (expects a value) The amount of
storage per environment, in GiB \* \`\--default-branch\` (expects a
value) The default Git branch name for the project (the production
environment) \* \`\--set-remote\` Set the new project as the remote for
this repository. This is the default if no remote project is already
set. \* \`\--no-set-remote\` Do not set the new project as the remote
for this repository \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`project:delete\` Delete a project \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
project:delete \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \####
Arguments \* \`project\`(optional) The project ID \#### Options \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`project:get\`
Clone a project locally Aliases: \`get\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun get
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--depth DEPTH\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[\--\] \[\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`project\`(optional) The project ID \* \`directory\`(optional) The
directory to clone to. Defaults to the project title \#### Options \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID to
clone. Defaults to the project default, or the first available
environment \* \`\--depth\` (expects a value) Create a shallow clone:
limit the number of commits in the history \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`)
(expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display
this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Clone the project
\"abc123\" into the directory \"my-project\": \`\`\` upsun project:get
abc123 my-project \`\`\` \## \`project:info\` Read or set properties for
a project \### Usage \`\`\` upsun project:info \[\--refresh\]
\[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\]
\[\--no-header\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\]
\[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`property\`(optional) The name of the property \* \`value\`(optional)
Set a new value for the property \#### Options \* \`\--refresh\` Whether
to refresh the cache \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date
format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--format\` (expects a value)
The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`)
(expects a value) Columns to display. The % or \* characters may be used
as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Read all project
properties: \`\`\` upsun project:info \`\`\` \* Show the project\'s Git
URL: \`\`\` upsun project:info git \`\`\` \* Change the project\'s
title: \`\`\` upsun project:info title \"My project\" \`\`\` \##
\`project:init\` Initialize a project Aliases: \`ify\` \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun project:init \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display
this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|vv\|vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Create the starter
YAML files for your project: \`\`\` upsun project:init \`\`\` \##
\`project:list\` Get a list of all active projects Aliases:
\`projects\`, \`pro\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun projects \[\--pipe\]
\[\--region REGION\] \[\--title TITLE\] \[\--my\] \[\--refresh REFRESH\]
\[\--sort SORT\] \[\--reverse\] \[\--page PAGE\] \[-c\|\--count COUNT\]
\[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[\--columns COLUMNS\]
\[\--no-header\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \`\`\` \#### Options \*
\`\--pipe\` Output a simple list of project IDs. Disables pagination. \*
\`\--region\` (expects a value) Filter by region (exact match) \*
\`\--title\` (expects a value) Filter by title (case-insensitive search)
\* \`\--my\` Display only the projects you own (through organizations
you own) \* \`\--refresh\` (expects a value) Whether to refresh the list
\* \`\--sort\` (expects a value) A property to sort by \* \`\--reverse\`
Sort in reverse (descending) order \* \`\--page\` (expects a value) Page
number. This enables pagination, despite configuration or \--count.
Ignored if \--pipe is specified. \* \`\--count\` (\`-c\`) (expects a
value) The number of projects to display per page. Use 0 to disable
pagination. Ignored if \--page is specified. \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`)
(expects a value) Filter by organization name or ID \* \`\--format\`
(expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \*
\`\--columns\` (expects a value) Columns to display. Available columns:
id\*, title\*, region\*, organization_name\*, created_at,
organization_id, organization_label, status (\* = default columns). The
character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for the default columns.
The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by
commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not
output the table header \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date
format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display
this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`project:set-remote\` Set the
remote project for the current Git repository Aliases: \`set-remote\`
\### Usage \`\`\` upsun set-remote \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`project\`(optional) The project ID \#### Options \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Set the remote
project for this repository to \"abcdef123456\": \`\`\` upsun
project:set-remote abcdef123456 \`\`\` \* Unset the remote project for
this repository: \`\`\` upsun project:set-remote - \`\`\` \##
\`repo:cat\` Read a file in the project repository \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun repo:cat \[-c\|\--commit COMMIT\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`path\`(required) The path to the file \#### Options \* \`\--commit\`
(\`-c\`) (expects a value) The commit SHA. This can also accept
\"HEAD\", and caret (\^) or tilde (\~) suffixes for parent commits. \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Read the
configuration file: \`\`\` upsun repo:cat .upsun/config.yaml \`\`\` \##
\`repo:ls\` List files in the project repository \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
repo:ls \[-d\|\--directories\] \[-f\|\--files\] \[\--git-style\]
\[-c\|\--commit COMMIT\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`path\`(optional)
The path to a subdirectory \#### Options \* \`\--directories\` (\`-d\`)
Show directories only \* \`\--files\` (\`-f\`) Show files only \*
\`\--git-style\` Style output similar to \"git ls-tree\" \*
\`\--commit\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) The commit SHA. This can also
accept \"HEAD\", and caret (\^) or tilde (\~) suffixes for parent
commits. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or
URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID.
Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`repo:read\` Read a directory
or file in the project repository Aliases: \`read\` \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun read \[-c\|\--commit COMMIT\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments
\* \`path\`(optional) The path to the directory or file \#### Options \*
\`\--commit\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) The commit SHA. This can also
accept \"HEAD\", and caret (\^) or tilde (\~) suffixes for parent
commits. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or
URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID.
Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`resources:build:get\` View
the build resources of a project Aliases: \`build-resources:get\`,
\`build-resources\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun build-resources:get
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns
COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--format\`
(expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \*
\`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. Available
columns: cpu, memory. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`resources:build:set\` Set the
build resources of a project Aliases: \`build-resources:set\` \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun build-resources:set \[\--cpu CPU\] \[\--memory MEMORY\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--cpu\` (expects a
value) Build CPU \* \`\--memory\` (expects a value) Build memory (in MB)
\* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`resources:get\`
View the resources of apps and services on an environment Aliases:
\`resources\`, \`res\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun resources
\[-s\|\--service SERVICE\] \[\--app APP\] \[\--worker WORKER\] \[\--type
TYPE\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\`
\#### Options \* \`\--service\` (\`-s\`) (expects a value) Filter by
service name. This can select any service, including apps and workers.
\* \`\--app\` (expects a value) Filter by app name \* \`\--worker\`
(expects a value) Filter by worker name \* \`\--type\` (expects a value)
Filter by service, app or worker type, e.g. \"postgresql\" \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--format\`
(expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \*
\`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. Available
columns: service\*, profile_size\*, cpu\*, memory\*, disk\*,
instance_count\*, base_memory, memory_ratio, profile, type (\* = default
columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for the
default columns. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`resources:set\` Set the
resources of apps and services on an environment \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
resources:set \[-S\|\--size SIZE\] \[-C\|\--count COUNT\] \[-D\|\--disk
DISK\] \[-f\|\--force\] \[\--dry-run\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \`\`\`
Configure the resources allocated to apps, workers and services on an
environment. The resources may be the profile size, the instance count,
or the disk size (MB). Profile sizes are predefined CPU & memory values
that can be viewed by running: upsun resources:sizes If the same service
and resource is specified on the command line multiple times, only the
final value will be used. \#### Options \* \`\--size\` (\`-S\`) (expects
a value) Set the profile size (CPU and memory) of apps, workers, or
services. Items are in the format name:value and may be comma-separated.
The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard for the name. List
available sizes with the resources:sizes command. A value of \'default\'
will use the default size, and \'min\' or \'minimum\' will use the
minimum. \* \`\--count\` (\`-C\`) (expects a value) Set the instance
count of apps or workers. Items are in the format name:value as above.
\* \`\--disk\` (\`-D\`) (expects a value) Set the disk size (in MB) of
apps or services. Items are in the format name:value as above. A value
of \'default\' will use the default size, and \'min\' or \'minimum\'
will use the minimum. \* \`\--force\` (\`-f\`) Try to run the update,
even if it might exceed your limits \* \`\--dry-run\` Show the changes
that would be made, without changing anything \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`)
(expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`)
(expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s
default environment. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the
operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete
(default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Set profile sizes for two apps and a service: \`\`\` upsun
resources:set \--size frontend:0.1,backend:.25,database:1 \`\`\` \* Give
the \"backend\" app 3 instances: \`\`\` upsun resources:set \--count
backend:3 \`\`\` \* Give 512 MB disk to the \"backend\" app and 2 GB to
the \"database\" service: \`\`\` upsun resources:set \--disk
backend:512,database:2048 \`\`\` \* Set the same profile size for the
\"backend\" and \"frontend\" apps using a wildcard: \`\`\` upsun
resources:set \--size \'\*end:0.1\' \`\`\` \* Set the same instance
count for all apps using a wildcard: \`\`\` upsun resources:set \--count
\'\*:3\' \`\`\` \## \`resources:size:list\` List container profile sizes
Aliases: \`resources:sizes\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun resources:sizes
\[-s\|\--service SERVICE\] \[\--profile PROFILE\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--format FORMAT\]
\[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \#### Options \*
\`\--service\` (\`-s\`) (expects a value) A service name \*
\`\--profile\` (expects a value) A profile name \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The
output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`)
(expects a value) Columns to display. Available columns: cpu, memory,
size. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be
split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\`
Do not output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`route:get\` View detailed information
about a route \### Usage \`\`\` upsun route:get \[\--id ID\]
\[-1\|\--primary\] \[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\] \[\--refresh\]
\[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \[-i\|\--identity-file IDENTITY-FILE\]
\[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`route\`(optional) The route\'s
original URL \#### Options \* \`\--id\` (expects a value) A route ID to
select \* \`\--primary\` (\`-1\`) Select the primary route \*
\`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value) The property to display \*
\`\--refresh\` Bypass the cache of routes \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a
value) The date format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value)
\[Deprecated option, no longer used\] \* \`\--identity-file\` (\`-i\`)
(expects a value) \[Deprecated option, no longer used\] \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* View the URL to
the https://{default}/ route: \`\`\` upsun route:get
\'https://{default}/\' -P url \`\`\` \## \`route:list\` List all routes
for an environment Aliases: \`routes\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun routes
\[\--refresh\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\]
\[\--no-header\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`environment\`(optional) The environment ID \#### Options \*
\`\--refresh\` Bypass the cache of routes \* \`\--format\` (expects a
value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\`
(\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. Available columns:
route\*, type\*, to\*, url (\* = default columns). The character \"+\"
can be used as a placeholder for the default columns. The % or \*
characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas
(e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output
the table header \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`service:list\`
List services in the project Aliases: \`services\` \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun services \[\--refresh\] \[\--pipe\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns
COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--refresh\`
Whether to refresh the cache \* \`\--pipe\` Output a list of service
names only \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID
or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment
ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \*
\`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or
plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display.
Available columns: disk, name, size, type. The % or \* characters may be
used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\")
and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`service:mongo:dump\` Create a binary archive dump of data from MongoDB
Aliases: \`mongodump\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun mongodump
\[-c\|\--collection COLLECTION\] \[-z\|\--gzip\] \[-o\|\--stdout\]
\[-r\|\--relationship RELATIONSHIP\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \`\`\` \####
Options \* \`\--collection\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) The collection
to dump \* \`\--gzip\` (\`-z\`) Compress the dump using gzip \*
\`\--stdout\` (\`-o\`) Output to STDOUT instead of a file \*
\`\--relationship\` (\`-r\`) (expects a value) The service relationship
to use \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or
URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID.
Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\`
(\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`service:mongo:export\` Export
data from MongoDB Aliases: \`mongoexport\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
mongoexport \[-c\|\--collection COLLECTION\] \[\--jsonArray\] \[\--type
TYPE\] \[-f\|\--fields FIELDS\] \[-r\|\--relationship RELATIONSHIP\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-A\|\--app APP\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--collection\` (\`-c\`)
(expects a value) The collection to export \* \`\--jsonArray\` Export
data as a single JSON array \* \`\--type\` (expects a value) The export
type, e.g. \"csv\" \* \`\--fields\` (\`-f\`) (expects a value) The
fields to export \* \`\--relationship\` (\`-r\`) (expects a value) The
service relationship to use \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value)
The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value)
The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote
application name \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Export a CSV from the \"users\" collection: \`\`\` upsun
service:mongo:export -c users \--type csv -f name,email \`\`\` \##
\`service:mongo:restore\` Restore a binary archive dump of data into
MongoDB Aliases: \`mongorestore\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun mongorestore
\[-c\|\--collection COLLECTION\] \[-r\|\--relationship RELATIONSHIP\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-A\|\--app APP\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--collection\` (\`-c\`)
(expects a value) The collection to restore \* \`\--relationship\`
(\`-r\`) (expects a value) The service relationship to use \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use
\".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\`
(\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`service:mongo:shell\` Use the
MongoDB shell Aliases: \`mongo\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun mongo \[\--eval
EVAL\] \[-r\|\--relationship RELATIONSHIP\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \`\`\` \####
Options \* \`\--eval\` (expects a value) Pass a JavaScript fragment to
the shell \* \`\--relationship\` (\`-r\`) (expects a value) The service
relationship to use \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \*
Display collection names: \`\`\` upsun service:mongo:shell \--eval
\'printjson(db.getCollectionNames())\' \`\`\` \## \`service:redis-cli\`
Access the Redis CLI Aliases: \`redis\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun redis
\[-r\|\--relationship RELATIONSHIP\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \[\--\] \[\]
\`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`args\`(optional) Arguments to add to the
Redis command \#### Options \* \`\--relationship\` (\`-r\`) (expects a
value) The service relationship to use \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`)
(expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`)
(expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s
default environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote
application name \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Open the redis-cli shell: \`\`\` upsun service:redis-cli
\`\`\` \* Ping the Redis server: \`\`\` upsun service:redis-cli ping
\`\`\` \* Show Redis status information: \`\`\` upsun service:redis-cli
info \`\`\` \* Scan keys: \`\`\` upsun service:redis-cli \-- \--scan
\`\`\` \* Scan keys matching a pattern: \`\`\` upsun service:redis-cli
\-- \"\--scan \--pattern \'\*-11\*\'\" \`\`\` \##
\`source-operation:list\` List source operations on an environment
Aliases: \`source-ops\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun source-ops \[\--full\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\`
\#### Options \* \`\--full\` Do not limit the length of command to
display. The default limit is 24 lines. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`)
(expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`)
(expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s
default environment. \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output
format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a
value) Columns to display. Available columns: app, command, operation.
The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by
commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not
output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`source-operation:run\` Run a source
operation \### Usage \`\`\` upsun source-operation:run \[\--variable
VARIABLE\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`operation\`(optional) The operation name \#### Options \*
\`\--variable\` (expects a value) A variable to set during the
operation, in the format type:name=value \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`)
(expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`)
(expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s
default environment. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the
operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete
(default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Run the \"update\" operation, setting environment variable
FOO=bar: \`\`\` upsun source-operation:run update \--variable
env:FOO=bar \`\`\` \## \`ssh-cert:load\` Generate an SSH certificate
\### Usage \`\`\` upsun ssh-cert:load \[\--refresh-only\] \[\--new\]
\[\--new-key\] \`\`\` This command checks if a valid SSH certificate is
present, and generates a new one if necessary. Certificates allow you to
make SSH connections without having previously uploaded a public key.
They are more secure than keys and they allow for other features.
Normally the certificate is loaded automatically during login, or when
making an SSH connection. So this command is seldom needed. If you want
to set up certificates without login and without an SSH-related command,
for example if you are writing a script that uses an API token via an
environment variable, then you would probably want to run this command
explicitly. For unattended scripts, remember to turn off interaction via
\--yes or the UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION environment variable. \####
Options \* \`\--refresh-only\` Only refresh the certificate, if
necessary (do not write SSH config) \* \`\--new\` Force the certificate
to be refreshed \* \`\--new-key\` Force a new key pair to be generated
\* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`ssh-key:add\` Add
a new SSH key \### Usage \`\`\` upsun ssh-key:add \[\--name NAME\]
\[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` This command lets you add an SSH key to your
account. It can generate a key using OpenSSH. Notice: SSH keys are no
longer needed by default, as SSH certificates are supported.
Certificates offer more security than keys. To load or check your SSH
certificate, run: upsun ssh-cert:load \#### Arguments \*
\`path\`(optional) The path to an existing SSH public key \#### Options
\* \`\--name\` (expects a value) A name to identify the key \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`ssh-key:delete\`
Delete an SSH key \### Usage \`\`\` upsun ssh-key:delete \[\] \`\`\`
This command lets you delete SSH keys from your account. Notice: SSH
keys are no longer needed by default, as SSH certificates are supported.
Certificates offer more security than keys. To load or check your SSH
certificate, run: upsun ssh-cert:load \#### Arguments \*
\`id\`(optional) The ID of the SSH key to delete \#### Options \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Delete
the key 123: \`\`\` upsun ssh-key:delete 123 \`\`\` \## \`ssh-key:list\`
Get a list of SSH keys in your account Aliases: \`ssh-keys\` \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun ssh-keys \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\]
\[\--no-header\] \`\`\` This command lets you list SSH keys in your
account. Notice: SSH keys are no longer needed by default, as SSH
certificates are supported. Certificates offer more security than keys.
To load or check your SSH certificate, run: upsun ssh-cert:load \####
Options \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table,
csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns
to display. Available columns: id\*, title\*, path\*, fingerprint (\* =
default columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for
the default columns. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`subscription:info\` Read or
modify subscription properties \### Usage \`\`\` upsun subscription:info
\[-s\|\--id ID\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--format FORMAT\]
\[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[\--\] \[\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`property\`(optional) The
name of the property \* \`value\`(optional) Set a new value for the
property \#### Options \* \`\--id\` (\`-s\`) (expects a value) The
subscription ID \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as
a PHP date format string) \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output
format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a
value) Columns to display. The % or \* characters may be used as a
wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* View
all subscription properties: \`\`\` upsun subscription:info \`\`\` \*
View the subscription status: \`\`\` upsun subscription:info status
\`\`\` \* View the storage limit (in MiB): \`\`\` upsun
subscription:info storage \`\`\` \## \`team:create\` Create a new team
\### Usage \`\`\` upsun team:create \[\--label LABEL\]
\[\--no-check-unique\] \[-r\|\--role ROLE\] \[\--output-id\]
\[-o\|\--org ORG\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--label\` (expects a
value) The team label \* \`\--no-check-unique\` Do not error if another
team exists with the same label in the organization \* \`\--role\`
(\`-r\`) (expects a value) Set the team\'s project and environment type
roles Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace.
The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. \* \`\--output-id\`
Output the new team\'s ID to stdout (instead of displaying the team
info) \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The organization name (or
ID) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`team:delete\`
Delete a team \### Usage \`\`\` upsun team:delete \[-o\|\--org ORG\]
\[-t\|\--team TEAM\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`)
(expects a value) The organization name (or ID) \* \`\--team\` (\`-t\`)
(expects a value) The team ID \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help
message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of
messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \*
\`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the
default value for other questions; disable interaction \*
\`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive questions; accept
default values. Equivalent to using the environment variable:
UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`team:get\` View a team \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun team:get \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-t\|\--team TEAM\] \[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\] \[\--date-fmt
DATE-FMT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\]
\[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a
value) The organization name (or ID) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects
a value) The project ID or URL, to auto-select the organization if
\--org is not used \* \`\--team\` (\`-t\`) (expects a value) The team ID
\* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value) The name of a property to
view \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format (as a PHP date
format string) \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format:
table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value)
Columns to display. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`team:list\` List teams
Aliases: \`teams\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun teams \[-c\|\--count COUNT\]
\[\--sort SORT\] \[\--reverse\] \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[\--columns
COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--count\` (\`-c\`)
(expects a value) The number of items to display per page. Use 0 to
disable pagination. \* \`\--sort\` (expects a value) A team property to
sort by \* \`\--reverse\` Sort in reverse order \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`)
(expects a value) The organization name (or ID) \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL, to auto-select the
organization if \--org is not used \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value)
The date format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--format\` (expects
a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\`
(expects a value) Columns to display. Available columns: id\*, label\*,
member_count\*, project_count\*, project_permissions\*, created_at,
updated_at (\* = default columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a
placeholder for the default columns. The % or \* characters may be used
as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or
whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`team:project:add\` Add project(s) to a team \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
team:project:add \[\--all\] \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-t\|\--team TEAM\]
\[\--\] \[\]\... \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`projects\`(optional;
multiple values allowed) The project ID(s). Values may be split by
commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \#### Options \* \`\--all\`
Add all the projects that currently exist in the organization \*
\`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The organization name (or ID) \*
\`\--team\` (\`-t\`) (expects a value) The team ID \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`team:project:delete\` Remove
a project from a team \### Usage \`\`\` upsun team:project:delete
\[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-t\|\--team TEAM\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \####
Arguments \* \`project\`(optional) The project ID \#### Options \*
\`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The organization name (or ID) \*
\`\--team\` (\`-t\`) (expects a value) The team ID \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`team:project:list\` List
projects in a team Aliases: \`team:projects\`, \`team:pro\` \### Usage
\`\`\` upsun team:projects \[-c\|\--count COUNT\] \[-o\|\--org ORG\]
\[-t\|\--team TEAM\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--format FORMAT\]
\[\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \#### Options \*
\`\--count\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) The number of items to display
per page (max: 200). Use 0 to disable pagination \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`)
(expects a value) The organization name (or ID) \* \`\--team\` (\`-t\`)
(expects a value) The team ID \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The
date format (as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--format\` (expects a
value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\`
(expects a value) Columns to display. Available columns: id\*, title\*,
granted_at\*, updated_at (\* = default columns). The character \"+\" can
be used as a placeholder for the default columns. The % or \* characters
may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g.
\"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the
table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`team:update\` Update a team \### Usage \`\`\` upsun team:update
\[\--label LABEL\] \[\--no-check-unique\] \[-r\|\--role ROLE\]
\[-t\|\--team TEAM\] \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\]
\`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--label\` (expects a value) Set a new team
label \* \`\--no-check-unique\` Do not error if another team exists with
the same label in the organization \* \`\--role\` (\`-r\`) (expects a
value) Set the team\'s project and environment type roles Values may be
split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. The % or \*
characters may be used as a wildcard. \* \`\--team\` (\`-t\`) (expects a
value) The team ID \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The
organization name (or ID) \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the
operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete
(default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`team:user:add\` Add a user to a team \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
team:user:add \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-t\|\--team TEAM\] \[\--\] \[\]
\`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`user\`(optional) The user email address or
ID \#### Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The
organization name (or ID) \* \`\--team\` (\`-t\`) (expects a value) The
team ID \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`team:user:delete\` Remove a user from a team \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
team:user:delete \[-o\|\--org ORG\] \[-t\|\--team TEAM\] \[\--\] \[\]
\`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`user\`(optional) The user email address or
ID \#### Options \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a value) The
organization name (or ID) \* \`\--team\` (\`-t\`) (expects a value) The
team ID \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`team:user:list\` List users in a team Aliases: \`team:users\` \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun team:users \[-c\|\--count COUNT\] \[-o\|\--org ORG\]
\[-t\|\--team TEAM\] \[\--date-fmt DATE-FMT\] \[\--format FORMAT\]
\[\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \#### Options \*
\`\--count\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) The number of items to display
per page. Use 0 to disable pagination \* \`\--org\` (\`-o\`) (expects a
value) The organization name (or ID) \* \`\--team\` (\`-t\`) (expects a
value) The team ID \* \`\--date-fmt\` (expects a value) The date format
(as a PHP date format string) \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The
output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (expects a
value) Columns to display. Available columns: id\*, email\*,
created_at\*, updated_at (\* = default columns). The character \"+\" can
be used as a placeholder for the default columns. The % or \* characters
may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g.
\"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the
table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`tunnel:close\` Close SSH tunnels \### Usage \`\`\` upsun tunnel:close
\[-a\|\--all\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--all\`
(\`-a\`) Close all tunnels \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value)
The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value)
The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default
environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote
application name \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`tunnel:info\` View relationship info for SSH tunnels \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun tunnel:info \[-P\|\--property PROPERTY\] \[-c\|\--encode\]
\[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\]
\[-A\|\--app APP\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`)
(expects a value) The relationship property to view \* \`\--encode\`
(\`-c\`) Output as base64-encoded JSON \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`)
(expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`)
(expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s
default environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote
application name \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`tunnel:list\` List SSH tunnels Aliases: \`tunnels\` \### Usage \`\`\`
upsun tunnels \[-a\|\--all\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \[\--format
FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \####
Options \* \`\--all\` (\`-a\`) View all tunnels \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value)
The remote application name \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The
output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`)
(expects a value) Columns to display. Available columns: port\*,
project\*, environment\*, app\*, relationship\*, url (\* = default
columns). The character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for the
default columns. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`)
Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase
the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`tunnel:open\` Open SSH
tunnels to an app\'s relationships \### Usage \`\`\` upsun tunnel:open
\[-g\|\--gateway-ports\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\] \`\`\` This command opens SSH tunnels
to all of the relationships of an application. Connections can then be
made to the application\'s services as if they were local, for example a
local MySQL client can be used, or the Solr web administration endpoint
can be accessed through a local browser. This command requires the posix
and pcntl PHP extensions (as multiple background CLI processes are
created to keep the SSH tunnels open). The tunnel:single command can be
used on systems without these extensions. \#### Options \*
\`\--gateway-ports\` (\`-g\`) Allow remote hosts to connect to local
forwarded ports \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project
ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value) The remote application name \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`tunnel:single\`
Open a single SSH tunnel to an app relationship \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
tunnel:single \[\--port PORT\] \[-g\|\--gateway-ports\] \[-p\|\--project
PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-A\|\--app APP\]
\[-r\|\--relationship RELATIONSHIP\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--port\`
(expects a value) The local port \* \`\--gateway-ports\` (\`-g\`) Allow
remote hosts to connect to local forwarded ports \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--app\` (\`-A\`) (expects a value)
The remote application name \* \`\--relationship\` (\`-r\`) (expects a
value) The service relationship to use \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display
this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`user:add\` Add a user to the
project \### Usage \`\`\` upsun user:add \[-r\|\--role ROLE\]
\[\--force-invite\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\]
\[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`email\`(optional)
The user\'s email address \#### Options \* \`\--role\` (\`-r\`) (expects
a value) The user\'s project role (\'admin\' or \'viewer\') or
environment type role (e.g. \'staging:contributor\' or
\'production:viewer\'). To remove a user from an environment type, set
the role as \'none\'. The % or \* characters can be used as a wildcard
for the environment type, e.g. \'%:viewer\' to give the user the
\'viewer\' role on all types. The role can be abbreviated, e.g.
\'production:v\'. \* \`\--force-invite\` Send an invitation, even if one
has already been sent \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the
operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete
(default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Add Alice as a project admin: \`\`\` upsun user:add
alice@example.com -r admin \`\`\` \* Add Bob as a viewer on the
\"production\" environment type, and a contributor on \"development\"
environments: \`\`\` upsun user:add bob@example.com -r production:v -r
development:c \`\`\` \* Add Charlie as viewer on \"production\" and
\"development\": \`\`\` upsun user:add charlie@example.com -r prod%:v -r
dev%:v \`\`\` \## \`user:delete\` Delete a user from the project \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun user:delete \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`email\`(required) The user\'s email address \#### Options \*
\`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \*
\`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* Delete Alice from
the project: \`\`\` upsun user:delete alice@example.com \`\`\` \##
\`user:get\` View a user\'s role(s) \### Usage \`\`\` upsun user:get
\[-l\|\--level LEVEL\] \[\--pipe\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\]
\[-r\|\--role ROLE\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`email\`(optional) The user\'s email address \#### Options \*
\`\--level\` (\`-l\`) (expects a value) The role level (\'project\' or
\'environment\') \* \`\--pipe\` Output the role to stdout (after making
any changes) \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID
or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment
ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \*
\`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--role\`
(\`-r\`) (expects a value) \[Deprecated: use user:update to change a
user\'s role(s)\] \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* View Alice\'s role on the project: \`\`\` upsun user:get
alice@example.com \`\`\` \* View Alice\'s role on the current
environment: \`\`\` upsun user:get alice@example.com \--level
environment \--pipe \`\`\` \## \`user:list\` List project users Aliases:
\`users\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun users \[\--format FORMAT\]
\[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The output
format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a
value) Columns to display. Available columns: email\*, name\*, role\*,
id\*, granted_at, permissions, updated_at (\* = default columns). The
character \"+\" can be used as a placeholder for the default columns.
The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by
commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not
output the table header \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`user:update\` Update user role(s) on a project \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
user:update \[-r\|\--role ROLE\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \*
\`email\`(optional) The user\'s email address \#### Options \*
\`\--role\` (\`-r\`) (expects a value) The user\'s project role
(\'admin\' or \'viewer\') or environment type role (e.g.
\'staging:contributor\' or \'production:viewer\'). To remove a user from
an environment type, set the role as \'none\'. The % or \* characters
can be used as a wildcard for the environment type, e.g. \'%:viewer\' to
give the user the \'viewer\' role on all types. The role can be
abbreviated, e.g. \'production:v\'. \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects
a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait
for the operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to
complete (default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Make Bob an admin on the \"development\" and \"staging\"
environment types: \`\`\` upsun user:update bob@example.com -r
development:a,staging:a \`\`\` \* Make Charlie a contributor on all
environment types: \`\`\` upsun user:update charlie@example.com -r %:c
\`\`\` \## \`variable:create\` Create a variable \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
variable:create \[-u\|\--update\] \[-l\|\--level LEVEL\] \[\--name
NAME\] \[\--value VALUE\] \[\--json JSON\] \[\--sensitive SENSITIVE\]
\[\--prefix PREFIX\] \[\--enabled ENABLED\] \[\--inheritable
INHERITABLE\] \[\--visible-build VISIBLE-BUILD\] \[\--visible-runtime
VISIBLE-RUNTIME\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \####
Arguments \* \`name\`(optional) The variable name \#### Options \*
\`\--update\` (\`-u\`) Update the variable if it already exists \*
\`\--level\` (\`-l\`) (expects a value) The level at which to set the
variable (\'project\' or \'environment\') \* \`\--name\` (expects a
value) The variable name \* \`\--value\` (expects a value) The
variable\'s value \* \`\--json\` (expects a value) Whether the variable
value is JSON-formatted \* \`\--sensitive\` (expects a value) Whether
the variable value is sensitive \* \`\--prefix\` (expects a value) The
variable name\'s prefix which can determine its type, e.g. \'env\'. Only
applicable if the name does not already contain a prefix. (e.g. \'none\'
or \'env:\') \* \`\--enabled\` (expects a value) Whether the variable
should be enabled on the environment \* \`\--inheritable\` (expects a
value) Whether the variable is inheritable by child environments \*
\`\--visible-build\` (expects a value) Whether the variable should be
visible at build time \* \`\--visible-runtime\` (expects a value)
Whether the variable should be visible at runtime \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait
for the operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to
complete (default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \##
\`variable:delete\` Delete a variable \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
variable:delete \[-l\|\--level LEVEL\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\]
\[\--\] \`\`\` \#### Arguments \* \`name\`(required) The variable name
\#### Options \* \`\--level\` (\`-l\`) (expects a value) The variable
level (\'project\', \'environment\', \'p\' or \'e\') \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait
for the operation to complete \* \`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to
complete (default) \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \*
\`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \*
\`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\`
(\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default
value for other questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\`
Do not ask any interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent
to using the environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \###
Examples \* Delete the variable \"example\": \`\`\` upsun
variable:delete example \`\`\` \## \`variable:get\` View a variable
Aliases: \`vget\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun vget \[-P\|\--property
PROPERTY\] \[-l\|\--level LEVEL\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns
COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--pipe\] \[\--\] \[\] \`\`\` \####
Arguments \* \`name\`(optional) The name of the variable \#### Options
\* \`\--property\` (\`-P\`) (expects a value) View a single variable
property \* \`\--level\` (\`-l\`) (expects a value) The variable level
(\'project\', \'environment\', \'p\' or \'e\') \* \`\--format\` (expects
a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\`
(\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display. The % or \* characters
may be used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g.
\"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the
table header \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID
or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment
ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \*
\`\--pipe\` \[Deprecated option\] Output the variable value only \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \### Examples \* View
the variable \"example\": \`\`\` upsun variable:get example \`\`\` \##
\`variable:list\` List variables Aliases: \`variables\`, \`var\` \###
Usage \`\`\` upsun variables \[-l\|\--level LEVEL\] \[\--format FORMAT\]
\[-c\|\--columns COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--level\`
(\`-l\`) (expects a value) The variable level (\'project\',
\'environment\', \'p\' or \'e\') \* \`\--format\` (expects a value) The
output format: table, csv, tsv, or plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`)
(expects a value) Columns to display. Available columns: is_enabled,
level, name, value. The % or \* characters may be used as a wildcard.
Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\") and/or whitespace. \*
\`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \* \`\--project\`
(\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\`
(\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment ID. Use \".\" to select the
project\'s default environment. \* \`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this
help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the
verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display this
application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`variable:update\` Update a
variable \### Usage \`\`\` upsun variable:update \[\--allow-no-change\]
\[-l\|\--level LEVEL\] \[\--value VALUE\] \[\--json JSON\]
\[\--sensitive SENSITIVE\] \[\--enabled ENABLED\] \[\--inheritable
INHERITABLE\] \[\--visible-build VISIBLE-BUILD\] \[\--visible-runtime
VISIBLE-RUNTIME\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\] \[-e\|\--environment
ENVIRONMENT\] \[-W\|\--no-wait\] \[\--wait\] \[\--\] \`\`\` \####
Arguments \* \`name\`(required) The variable name \#### Options \*
\`\--allow-no-change\` Return success (zero exit code) if no changes
were provided \* \`\--level\` (\`-l\`) (expects a value) The variable
level (\'project\', \'environment\', \'p\' or \'e\') \* \`\--value\`
(expects a value) The variable\'s value \* \`\--json\` (expects a value)
Whether the variable value is JSON-formatted \* \`\--sensitive\`
(expects a value) Whether the variable value is sensitive \*
\`\--enabled\` (expects a value) Whether the variable should be enabled
on the environment \* \`\--inheritable\` (expects a value) Whether the
variable is inheritable by child environments \* \`\--visible-build\`
(expects a value) Whether the variable should be visible at build time
\* \`\--visible-runtime\` (expects a value) Whether the variable should
be visible at runtime \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The
project ID or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The
environment ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment.
\* \`\--no-wait\` (\`-W\`) Do not wait for the operation to complete \*
\`\--wait\` Wait for the operation to complete (default) \* \`\--help\`
(\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\` (\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`)
Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\` (\`-V\`) Display
this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer \"yes\" to
confirmation questions; accept the default value for other questions;
disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any interactive
questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the environment
variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 \## \`worker:list\` Get a list of
all deployed workers Aliases: \`workers\` \### Usage \`\`\` upsun
workers \[\--refresh\] \[\--pipe\] \[-p\|\--project PROJECT\]
\[-e\|\--environment ENVIRONMENT\] \[\--format FORMAT\] \[-c\|\--columns
COLUMNS\] \[\--no-header\] \`\`\` \#### Options \* \`\--refresh\`
Whether to refresh the cache \* \`\--pipe\` Output a list of worker
names only \* \`\--project\` (\`-p\`) (expects a value) The project ID
or URL \* \`\--environment\` (\`-e\`) (expects a value) The environment
ID. Use \".\" to select the project\'s default environment. \*
\`\--format\` (expects a value) The output format: table, csv, tsv, or
plain \* \`\--columns\` (\`-c\`) (expects a value) Columns to display.
Available columns: commands, name, type. The % or \* characters may be
used as a wildcard. Values may be split by commas (e.g. \"a,b,c\")
and/or whitespace. \* \`\--no-header\` Do not output the table header \*
\`\--help\` (\`-h\`) Display this help message \* \`\--verbose\`
(\`-v\|-vv\|-vvv\`) Increase the verbosity of messages \* \`\--version\`
(\`-V\`) Display this application version \* \`\--yes\` (\`-y\`) Answer
\"yes\" to confirmation questions; accept the default value for other
questions; disable interaction \* \`\--no-interaction\` Do not ask any
interactive questions; accept default values. Equivalent to using the
environment variable: UPSUN_CLI_NO_INTERACTION=1 #Configure a
third-party TLS certificate Upsun automatically provides standard
Transport Layer Security (TLS) certificates for all sites and
environments. These certificates are issued at no charge by \[Let\'s
Encrypt\](https://letsencrypt.org/) and cover most needs. To use them,
you need to \[specify HTTPS
routes\](../../define-routes/https.md#enable-https). Note that some
\[limitations\](../../define-routes/https.md#lets-encrypt-limitations)
apply. Upsun allows you to use third-party TLS certificates free of
charge. You can use many kinds of custom certificates, including
domain-validated, extended validation, high-assurance, or wildcard
certificates. Consult your TLS issuer for pricing and instructions on
how to generate a TLS certificate. Seven days before a third-party
custom certificate is due to expire, Upsun replaces it with a new
default Let's Encrypt certificate. This helps prevent downtime. To avoid
switching to a default certificate, make sure you replace your custom
certificate with an updated one more than seven days before its
expiration date. Note that custom certificates aren\'t necessary for
preview environments. Wildcard certificates that cover all
\`\*.platform.sh\` domains, including preview environments, are
automatically provided. \### Add a custom certificate You can add a
custom certificate using the
\[CLI\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md) or in the
\[Console\](../../administration/web/\_index.md). Your certificate has
to be in PKCS #1 format and start with \`\-\-\-\--BEGIN RSA PRIVATE
KEY\-\-\-\--\`. If it doesn\'t start that way, \[change the
format\](#change-the-private-key-format). To add your custom
certificate, follow these steps:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun domain:add YOUR_DOMAIN --cert PATH_TO_CERTIFICATE_FILE --key PATH_TO_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE`

    For example:

    `upsun domain:add secure.example.com --cert /etc/TLS/private/secure-example-com.crt --key /etc/TLS/private/secure-example-com.key`

    You can optionally include intermediate SSL certificates by adding
    `‐‐chain PATH_TO_FILE` for each one.

2.  Redeploy your production environment with the following command:

    `upsun environment:redeploy`

<!-- -->

1.  Open the project where you want to add a certificate.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
3.  Click **Certificates**.
4.  Click **+ Add**.
5.  Fill in your private key, public key certificate, and (optionally)
    intermediate SSL certificates.
6.  Click **Add Certificate**.
7.  Access your production environment.
8.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDYuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDYuNSAxMy41IDUuODI4NDMgMTMuNSA1QzEzLjUgNC4xNzE1NyAxMi44Mjg0IDMuNSAxMiAzLjVDMTEuMTcxNiAzLjUgMTAuNSA0LjE3MTU3IDEwLjUgNUMxMC41IDUuODI4NDMgMTEuMTcxNiA2LjUgMTIgNi41WiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTIgMTMuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTMuNSAxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTJDMTMuNSAxMS4xNzE2IDEyLjgyODQgMTAuNSAxMiAxMC41QzExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMC41IDExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMkMxMC41IDEyLjgyODQgMTEuMTcxNiAxMy41IDEyIDEzLjVaIiAvPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    **More**.
9.  Click **Redeploy**.

\### Change the private key format The expected format for your
certificate's private key is PKCS #1. Private keys in PKCS #1 format
start with \`\-\-\-\--BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY\-\-\-\--\`. If your private
key starts with \`\-\-\-\--BEGIN PRIVATE KEY\-\-\-\--\`, it's in PKCS #8
format, which isn't appropriate. To convert your private key
(\`private.key\`) from PKCS #8 to PKCS #1 format (\`private.rsa.key\`),
run the following command: \`\`\`bash openTLS rsa -in private.key -out
private.rsa.key \`\`\` #From monoliths through headless to microservices
With Upsun, you can run multiple application containers in a single
environment. This gives you access to a large variety of setups and
allows you to seamlessly upgrade your app from a monolith with a single
application server to a more elaborate and effective topology. You can
set up multiple apps to achieve the following: - Keep your backend and
frontend systems separate - Run workers alongside your main app - Or
even go for a full microservices architecture Upsun makes implementing
such setups and switching from one to the other pain-free. The same
flexibility applies to any supported services, from relational databases
to search engines and message queues. Depending on your specific use
case, you can run a single database, multiple databases inside a single
instance, or multiple databases in multiple versions\... It\'s up to
you! Whether you embrace a mono-repo approach with a single Git
repository describing your entire setup, or divide your project into
multiple repositories, Upsun allows you to build the best architecture
for your needs. But while the possibilities are endless, making the
right choice between creating one big project with multiple apps or
keeping each app in its own project can be a tough formula to crack. So
read on for guidance! \## Separate projects If you have multiple apps
sharing the same code but each of them has its own data, keep your apps
in separate projects. Upsun provides the automation to deploy multiple
projects from the same code base, which makes their maintenance
effortless.

### Note

By design, Upsun doesn't allow your app to access services in another
project through HTTP.

So separate projects are appropriate in the following cases: - Your apps
are for different customers/clients - Your apps don\'t need to directly
connect to the same database - Different teams are working on different
apps - You want to develop true microservices, where each microservice
is a fully standalone process with its own data When in doubt over your
own needs, it\'s better to keep separate projects than build an
architecture that may prove difficult for you to maintain. \## Clustered
applications A clustered application is one where your project requires
multiple \_app services\_ that are all part of the same conceptual
project. Clustered applications can range from a straightforward
headless architecture, where frontend and backend systems are separated,
to micro-services with dozens of apps in multiple runtimes and
frameworks forming a consistent whole. Meaning, removing one of the app
services would break the others. Upsun allows you to configure access
from one service to another without having to worry about service
discovery or complex \_ingress controllers\_. \[Configuring incoming
routes\](/define-routes/\_index.md) is straightforward. You can have
services that are only exposed to another service as well as services
that are exposed to the internet. In a clustered application, you can
have one of the following configurations: - Multiple
\[applications\](/create-apps/multi-app/\_index.md), often in different
directories or with separate code bases that deploy separately - A
single app that spawns one or more \[worker
instances\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#workers)
that run background processes With a clustered application, you often
don\'t need multiple service instances. The \[MySQL,
MariaDB\](/add-services/mysql/\_index.md), and
\[Solr\](/add-services/solr.md) services support defining multiple
databases on a single service, which is significantly more efficient
than defining multiple services. \[Redis\](/add-services/redis.md),
\[Memcached\](/add-services/memcached.md),
\[Elasticsearch\](/add-services/elasticsearch.md), and
\[RabbitMQ\](/add-services/rabbitmq.md) natively support multiple bins
(also called \_queues\_ or \_indexes\_) defined by the client
application as part of the request. Therefore, they don\'t need
additional configuration on Upsun. Clustered applications are
appropriate in the following cases: - You want one user-facing app and
an entirely separate admin-facing app that are both operating on the
same data - You want to have a user-facing app and a separate worker
process (either the same code or separate) that handles background
tasks - You want a single conceptual app written in multiple programming
languages \## A note on \"multi-site\" applications Some Content
Management Systems or other applications support running multiple
logical \"sites\" off of a single code base. This approach isn\'t
recommended on Upsun. This multi-site logic is often dependent on the
domain name of the incoming request, which on Upsun varies by branch.
Running multiple databases, as is often recommended with this approach,
is supported on Upsun but makes the setup process for each site more
difficult. Leveraging the multi-site capabilities of an app are
appropriate only in the following cases: - There is only a single team
working on all of the \"sites\" involved - All \"sites\" should be
updated simultaneously as a single unit - Each individual site is
relatively low traffic, such that the aggregate traffic is appropriate
for your plan size - All sites really do use the same codebase with no
variation, just different data Otherwise, \[separate
projects\](#separate-projects) are a better long-term plan. #Handle
subdomains across different projects You can host multiple subdomains,
such as \`foo.example.com\` and \`bar.example.com\`, within a single
project using \[routes\](../../define-routes/\_index.md). If you try to
use a subdomain that\'s used in another project, you get an error like
the following: \`\`\`text This domain is already claimed by another
service \`\`\` You need to add a DNS record to make it clear you
explicitly allow multiple projects to use the domain. \## Enable
subdomains across multiple projects To ensure multiple projects can use
subdomains of the same apex domain, add a specific \`TXT\` DNS record
for your apex domain. The \`TXT\` record should look like the following:
\`\`\`text \_public-suffix-root.YOUR_APEX_DOMAIN TXT
\"public-suffix-root=YOUR_APEX_DOMAIN\" \`\`\` This adds your domain to
the \[Upsun implementation of the Public Suffix
List\](#why-this-is-necessary). After you add your subdomains, remove
the \`TXT\` record to reinstate \[subdomain hijacking
protection\](#subdomain-hijacking-protection). This ensures no other
users can possibly add a subdomain of your domain to their project. Even
if you don't remove the record, your DNS records should prevent others
from using a subdomain as long as you don't use wildcards records
pointing at Upsun. However, if you don\'t remove the \`TXT\` record,
restrictions apply on the apex domain. For example, you can\'t add the
apex domain to another project until you remove the \`TXT\` record. \##
Bypass locked domains In certain cases (such as if your domain was added
manually by Upsun support), your domain may be reserved for the project
you added it to. Then you can\'t set up a second project with the bare
domain (\`example.com\`) or a subdomain (\`foo.example.com\`). If that
happens, \[contact support\](/learn/overview/get-support.md). Include
the project ID of the project that already has the domain. \## Why this
is necessary \### The Public Suffix List Domain names are segmented into
different hierarchical levels, separated by a \`.\`. The right-most
portion of the domain, such as \`.com\`, \`.edu\`, and \`.fr\`, is known
as the top-level domain (TLD). Most applications, including web
browsers, handle TLDs specially, such as by restricting certain actions.
For example, a webpage at \`foo.bar.baz.example.com\` can usually set a
cookie that\'s keyed to any of the following: -
\`foo.bar.baz.example.com\` - \`bar.baz.example.com\` -
\`baz.example.com\` - \`example.com\` So a single site can be segmented
across different subdomains but use a single account login cookie. But
this webpage \*can\'t\* set cookies keyed to all \`.com\` domains, which
would be a security risk. Other restrictions apply to TLDs, but cookies
are the most basic example. Aside from true TLDs, browser makers have a
list of domain suffixes that should get the same special handling called
the \[Public Suffix List (PSL)\](https://publicsuffix.org/). If you add
the \`example.com\` domain to the PSL, browsers refuse to set a cookie
on \`example.com\` from a page at \`foo.example.com\`. They still accept
cookies from a page at \`example.com\`. \### Subdomain hijacking
protection By default, a given domain can be used by only one project at
a time. This security measure prevents malicious actions such as
registering a project with the \`evil.example.com\` subdomain and using
that to set cookies on your \`example.com\` website. When you add a
domain to a project, the first level of the domain not in the
\[PSL\](#the-public-suffix-list) is reserved. So if you add
\`foo.bar.baz.example.com\` to a project, that project has
\`example.com\` reserved within Upsun and no other project can have a
domain anywhere in \`\*.example.com\`. You can add multiple subdomains
within that one project. Subdomain hijacking protection ensures that no
other users can add a subdomain to their project as long as you don\'t
use wildcard DNS records pointing at Upsun. In most cases, that\'s a
desirable added layer of security. But you may run into a problem when
you want multiple subdomains from the same organization as separate
projects. One option would be to add \`example.com\` to the PSL, but you
might not want or be able to do that. To limit what domains get
protected, Upsun supports a small extension to the PSL. When you add a
\`TXT\` record for your domain, Upsun treats that domain as part of the
PSL. So when you add a \`TXT\` record for \`example.com\`, Upsun treats
\`example.com\` as a top-level domain. That means it isn\'t reserved and
is open for other projects. Then when you add a domain, the next level
down from \`example.com\` is reserved. So if you add
\`foo.bar.baz.example.com\` to a project, \`\*.baz.example.com\` is
reserved for that project. You can add \`beep.example.com\` to a
different project without any issues. You can do the same for any level
of subdomain. So if you set a \`TXT\` record for \`baz.example.com\` and
add \`foo.bar.baz.example.com\` to a project, \`\*.bar.baz.example.com\`
is reserved for that project. Nothing at a higher level is reserved.
#HTTP cache Upsun supports HTTP caching at the server level. Caching is
enabled by default, but is only applied to `GET` and `HEAD` requests.
The cache can be controlled using the \`cache\` key in your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. If a request can be cached, Upsun builds a
cache key from several request properties and stores the response
associated with this key. When a request comes with the same cache key,
the cached response is reused. When caching is on\... \* you can
configure cache behavior for different location blocks in your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\`; \* the router respects whatever cache headers
are sent by the application; \* cookies bypass the cache; \* responses
with the \`Cache-Control\` header set to \`Private\`, \`No-Cache\`, or
\`No-Store\` aren\'t cached. You should \_not\_ use the Upsun HTTP cache
if you\'re using \[Varnish\](../add-services/varnish.md) or an external
CDN such as \[Fastly\](../domains/cdn/fastly.md) or
\[Cloudflare\](../domains/cdn/cloudflare.md). Mixing cache services
together most likely results in caches that are stale and can\'t be
cleared. For more details, see \[best practices on HTTP
caching\](/learn/bestpractices/http-caching.md). \## Basic usage The
HTTP cache is enabled by default, however you may wish to override this
behavior. To configure the HTTP cache, add a \`cache\` key to your
route. You may like to start with the defaults: \`\`\`yaml {} routes:
https://{default}/: type: upstream upstream: myapp:http cache: enabled:
true default_ttl: 0 cookies: \[\'\*\'\] headers: \[\'Accept\',
\'Accept-Language\'\] \`\`\` \## Example In this example, requests are
cached based on the URI, the \`Accept\` header, \`Accept-Language\`
header, and \`X-Language-Locale\` header. Any response that lacks a
\`Cache-Control\` header is cached for 60 seconds. The presence of any
cookie in the request disables caching of that response. \`\`\`yaml {}
routes: https://{default}/: type: upstream upstream: myapp:http cache:
enabled: true headers: \[\'Accept\', \'Accept-Language\',
\'X-Language-Locale\'\] cookies: \[\'\*\'\] default_ttl: 60 \`\`\` \##
How it works \### The cache key If a request can be cached, Upsun builds
a cache key from several request properties and stores the response
associated with this key. When a request comes with the same cache key,
the cached response is reused. There are two parameters that let you
control this key: \`headers\` and \`cookies\`. The default value for
these keys are the following: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: https://{default}/:
\# \... cache: enabled: true cookies: \[\'\*\'\] headers: \[\'Accept\',
\'Accept-Language\'\] \`\`\` \### Duration The cache duration is decided
based on the \`Cache-Control\` response header value. If no
\`Cache-Control\` header is in the response, then the value of
\`default_ttl\` key is used. \### Conditional requests Conditional
requests using \`If-Modified-Since\` and \`If-None-Match\` are both
supported. The web server doesn\'t honor the \`Pragma\` request header.
\### Cache revalidation When the cache is expired (indicated by
\`Last-Modified\` header in the response) the web server sends a request
to your application with \`If-Modified-Since\` header. If the
\`If-None-Match\` header is sent in the conditional request when
\`Etag\` header is set in the cached response, your application can
extend the validity of the cache by replying \`HTTP 304 Not Modified\`.
\### Flushing The HTTP cache doesn\'t support a complete cache flush,
but you can invalidate the cache by setting \`cache: false\`.
Alternatively, the cache clears on a rebuild, so triggering a rebuild
(pushing a new commit) effectively causes a complete cache flush. \##
Cache configuration properties \### \`enabled\` Turns the cache on or
off for a route.

**Type:** Boolean

**Required:** Yes

**Values**

-   `true`: enable the cache for this route \[default, but only if the
    `cache` key isn't actually specified\]
-   `false`: disable the cache for this route

\### \`headers\` Adds specific header fields to the cache key, enabling
caching of separate responses for those headers. For example, if the
\`headers\` key is the following, Upsun caches a different response for
each value of the \`Accept\` HTTP request header only: \`\`\`yaml {}
routes: https://{default}/: \# \... cache: enabled: true headers:
\[\"Accept\"\] \`\`\`

**Type:** List

**Values:**

-   `['Accept', 'Accept-Language']`: Cache on Accept & Accept-Language
    \[default\]

\#### Header behaviors The cache is only applied to \`GET\` and \`HEAD\`
requests. Some headers trigger specific behaviors in the cache. Header
field \| Cache behavior
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\`Cache-Control\`\|Responses with the \`Cache-Control\` header set to
\`Private\`, \`No-Cache\`, or \`No-Store\` aren\'t cached. All other
values override \`default_ttl\`. \`Vary\`\|A list of header fields to be
taken into account when constructing the cache key. Multiple header
fields can be listed, separated by commas. The Cache key is the union of
the values of the Header fields listed in Vary header, and whatever is
listed in the \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. \`Set-Cookie\`\|Not cached
\`Accept-Encoding\`, \`Connection\`, \`Proxy-Authorization\`, \`TE\`,
\`Upgrade\`\|Not allowed, and throws an error \`Cookie\`\|Not allowed,
and throws an error. Use the \`cookies\` value, instead.
\`Pragma\`\|Ignored A full list of HTTP headers is available on
\[Wikipedia\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_header_fields).
\### \`cookies\` The \`cookies\` key allows you to define a list of
cookies you want to include in the cache key, if any. \| Possible values
\| Description \| Default \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`\[\'\*\'\]\` \| Any request with a cookie bypasses the cache. Note
that this is achieved by Upsun adding the \`X-Platform-Cache: BYPASS\`
HTTP header in the router, and that the same behaviour applies if the
\`Set-Cookie\` header is present. \| Yes \| \| \`\[\]\` \| Ignore all
cookies. \| No \| \|\`\[\'cookie_1\',\'cookie_2\'\]\` \| A list of
allowed cookies to include in the cache key. All other cookies are
ignored. \| No \| \#### Example with a single value With the following
configuration, the cache key depends on the value of the \`foo\` cookie
in the request. Other cookies are ignored. \`\`\`yaml {} routes:
https://{default}/: \# \... cache: enabled: true cookies: \[\"foo\"\]
\`\`\` \#### Example with a regular expression A cookie value can also
be a regular expression. An entry that begins and ends with a \`/\` is
interpreted as a PCRE regular expression to match the cookie name. For
example: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: https://{default}/: \# \... cache:
enabled: true cookies: \[\'/\^SS?ESS/\'\] \`\`\` This configuration
causes all cookies beginning with \`SESS\` or \`SSESS\` to be part of
the cache key, as a single value. Other cookies are ignored for caching.
If your site uses a session cookie as well as third-party cookies, say
from an analytics service, this is the recommended approach. \###
\`default_ttl\` Defines the default time-to-live for the cache, in
seconds, for non-static responses, when the response doesn\'t specify
one. The cache duration is decided based on the \`Cache-Control\`
response header value. If no \`Cache-Control\` header is in the
response, then the value of \`default_ttl\` is used. If the application
code returns a \`Cache-Control\` header or if your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file is configured to set a cache lifetime, then
this value is ignored in favor of the application headers. The
\`default_ttl\` only applies to \*\*non-static responses\*\*, that is,
those generated by your application. To set a cache lifetime for static
resources configure that in your \[app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#locations).
All static assets have a Cache-Control header with a max age defaulting
to 0 (which is the default for \`expires\`).

**Type:** integer

**Values:**

-   `0`: Do not cache \[default\]. This prevents caching, *unless* the
    response specifies a `Cache-Control` header value.

\## Debugging Upsun adds an \`X-Platform-Cache\` header to each request
which show whether your request is a cache \`HIT\`, \`MISS\` or
\`BYPASS\`. This can be useful when trying to determine whether it\'s
your application, the HTTP cache, or another proxy or CDN which isn\'t
behaving as expected. If in doubt, disable the cache using \`cache:
false\`. \## Advanced caching strategies \### Cache per route If you
need fine-grained caching, you can set up caching rules for several
routes separately: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: https://{default}/: type:
upstream upstream: myapp:http cache: enabled: true
https://{default}/foo/: type: upstream upstream: myapp:http cache:
enabled: false https://{default}/foo/bar/: type: upstream upstream:
myapp:http cache: enabled: true \`\`\` With this configuration, the
following routes are cached: - \`https://{default}/\` -
\`https://{default}/foo/bar/\` - \`https://{default}/foo/bar/baz/\` And
the following routes are \*\*not\*\* cached: -
\`https://{default}/foo/\` - \`https://{default}/foo/baz/\`

### Note

Regular expressions in routes are **not** supported.

\### Allowing only specific cookies Some applications use cookies to
invalidate cache responses, but expect other cookies to be ignored. This
is a case of allowing only a subset of cookies to invalidate the cache.
\`\`\`yaml {} routes: https://{default}/: \# \... cache: enabled: true
cookies: \[\"MYCOOKIE\"\] \`\`\` \### Cache HTTP and HTTPS separately
using the \`Vary\` header Set the Vary header to \`X-Forwarded-Proto\`
\[custom request header\](/development/headers.md) to render content
based on the request protocol (i.e. HTTP or HTTPS). By adding \`Vary:
X-Forwarded-Proto\` to the response header, HTTP and HTTPS content would
be cached separately. \### Cache zipped content separately Use \`Vary:
Accept-Encoding\` to serve different content depending on the encoding.
Useful for ensuring that gzipped content isn\'t served to clients that
can\'t read it. #Monitor your billing information To help you manage
costs related to your organization, Upsun provides estimates for the
current month and the next. You can set billing alerts to ensure you
don\'t overspend, and track resource usage on each of your projects. For
details on costs, see the \[Upsun pricing
page\](https://upsun.com/pricing/). \## Access your organization billing
information To access your organization billing information in the
\[Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md): 1. Navigate to your
organization. 2. Open the user menu (your name or profile picture). 3.
Click \*\*Billing\*\*. The \*\*Overview\*\* tab is displayed. You can
view your current month and next month estimates. \![Organization
billing information in the Overview
tab\](/images/billing/organization-billing.png \"0.6\") \### Current
month estimate The \[\*\*Overview\*\*
tab\](#access-your-organization-billing-information) shows an estimate
of how much you may be charged at the end of this month. This estimate
is based on: - Your organization settings (user management settings,
number of projects, potential add-ons, support SLA, etc.) - Your
resource allocation on each project The estimate includes the history of
changes made since the beginning of the month. \*\*It cannot be 100%
accurate, as it is impossible to know exactly what your future usage
will be.\*\* However, for maximum accuracy, the current month estimate
includes the following underlying estimates, each with its own
calculation:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   User management estimate
-   Accumulated resource usage estimate
-   Allocated resource usage estimate

The following formula is used to estimate how much user license and user
management add-on fees may cost you this month:
`unit price x prorated quantity`.

  Item                  Description
  --------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `unit price`          A fixed unit price.
  `prorated quantity`   An average of past changes and current settings, applied for all the remaining days in the month.

All items used for the calculation are displayed in the **Overview**
tab.

The resources consumed for builds, bandwidth, and log forwarding are
accumulated resources. The following formula is used to estimate how
much accumulated resource usage may cost you this month:
`current accumulation + (unit price x daily average x remaining days in the month)`.

  Item                     Description
  ------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `current accumulation`   The amount of accumulated resources you have effectively used so far this month.
  `unit price`             A fixed unit price.
  `daily average`          An average based on the accumulated resource usage you've had over the last 30 days.

All items used for the calculation are displayed in the [**Overview**
tab](#access-your-organization-billing-information).

The resources consumed by your applications and services (CPU, RAM, and
storage) are allocated resources. The following formula is used to
estimate how much allocated resource usage may cost you this month:
`unit price x prorated quantity`.

  Item                  Description
  --------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `unit price`          A fixed unit price.
  `prorated quantity`   An average of past changes and current settings, applied for all the remaining days in the month.

All items used for the calculation are displayed in the [**Overview**
tab](#access-your-organization-billing-information).

\### Next month estimate From the \[\*\*Overview\*\*
tab\](#access-your-organization-billing-information), you can also
access an estimate for next month. Like your \[current month
estimate\](#current-month-estimate), it includes your organization
settings and resource allocation on each project. However, your next
month estimate \*\*does not include any history of changes\*\*. It is
solely based on your current organization settings and resource
allocation, and shows what you may be charged if you don\'t make any
changes until the end of next month. The following formulas are used: -
\`unit price x current allocation\` to estimate how much user license,
user management add-on fees, and allocated resources may respectively
cost you next month. - \`unit price x daily average x 30 days\` to
estimate how much accumulated resources may cost you next month. \###
Invoice Your invoice provides definitive information on what you will be
charged. It is calculated at month-end close, and includes your actual
organization settings and resource usage. To access your current invoice
and a history of past invoices, open the \*\*Invoices\*\* tab:
\![Invoices tab in the Console\](/images/billing/invoices-tab.png) \##
Manage billing alerts

### Feature availability

Billing alerts can only be set and received by the organization owner,
users with the [**Manage Billing**
permission](/administration/users.html#organization-permissions), and
identified billing contacts.

\### Set a billing alert You can set billing alerts to receive an email
when your \[current month estimate\](#current-month-estimate) reaches a
defined threshold.

### Warning

Current month estimates are computed once a day only. Therefore, email
notifications can only be triggered once a day too.

You may want to increase your billing alert threshold after receiving an
email notification. However, if the new threshold is reached later on
the same day, **you won't get notified until the following day**, when
the current month estimate is computed again.

To set a billing alert on your organization: 1. Navigate to your
organization. 2. Open the user menu (your name or profile picture). 3.
Click \*\*Billing\*\*. 4. In the \*\*Overview\*\* tab, click \*\*Set
alert\*\*. 5. Enter a threshold. 6. Click \*\*Create alert\*\*. \###
Edit a billing alert To edit or delete a billing alert, click the
billing alert button in the \*\*Overview\*\* tab: \![Billing alert
button in the Console\](/images/billing/billing-alert-button.png
\"0.1\") Change the monthly threshold and click \*\*Save\*\*, or click
\*\*Delete alert\*\*. To change the currency of your billing alerts,
\[contact support\](/learn/overview/get-support.md).

### Warning

After Support changes the currency, your existing billing alerts are
**not** automatically converted to the new currency. Edit your billing
alerts to have correct amounts in the new currency.

\## Track resource usage on a project

### Feature availability

This feature is available to users with the [**Manage Billing**
permission](/administration/users.html#organization-permissions) on the
organization.

You can track costs related to resource usage on a specific project in
the \[Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md). To do so, after you\'ve
set or updated resources on your project: 1. Navigate to your
organization. 2. Open the user menu (your name or profile picture). 3.
Click \*\*Billing\*\*. Your \[current month
estimate\](#current-month-estimate) shows how much each project in your
organization is expected to cost this month. 4. You can select a project
to view resource allocation and usage details. To do so, click
\*\*![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDYuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDYuNSAxMy41IDUuODI4NDMgMTMuNSA1QzEzLjUgNC4xNzE1NyAxMi44Mjg0IDMuNSAxMiAzLjVDMTEuMTcxNiAzLjUgMTAuNSA0LjE3MTU3IDEwLjUgNUMxMC41IDUuODI4NDMgMTEuMTcxNiA2LjUgMTIgNi41WiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTIgMTMuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTMuNSAxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTJDMTMuNSAxMS4xNzE2IDEyLjgyODQgMTAuNSAxMiAxMC41QzExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMC41IDExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMkMxMC41IDEyLjgyODQgMTEuMTcxNiAxMy41IDEyIDEzLjVaIiAvPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
More\*\* next to it, and select \*\*Project Billing\*\*. \![Project
billing information in the Overview
tab\](/images/billing/project-billing.png \"0.6\") For information on
resource-related costs, see the \[Upsun pricing
page\](https://upsun.com/pricing/). #Moving a Java application to {{%
vendor/name %}}

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

It is common to have a Java application that you want to migrate to
Upsun. Upsun supports several styles of Java application, such as
monolith, microservices, stateful, and stateless. \## Minimum
Requirement To run a Java application at Upsun you need: \* \[A
supported Java version\](/languages/java/\_index.md#supported-versions)
\* \[A build management
tool\](/languages/java/\_index.md#support-build-automation) \*
\[Gradle\](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
\* \[Maven\](https://maven.apache.org/) \* \[Maven
Wrapper\](https://www.baeldung.com/maven-wrapper) \*
\[Ant\](https://ant.apache.org/) \* A Git Repository: \*
\[GitHub\](/integrations/source/github.md) \*
\[BitBucket\](/integrations/source/bitbucket.md) \*
\[GitLab\](/integrations/source/gitlab.md) \* The default Git repository
provided by Upsun

### Note

A container application can't be bigger than **8 GB** of memory. For
more details, see tuning.

\## Monolith/Single Application To start a Java application, you need to
understand the \[Upsun structure\](/learn/overview/structure.md). You
will need to configure your
\[application\](../../create-apps/\_index.md),
\[routes\](../../define-routes/\_index.md), and
\[services\](../../add-services/\_index.md). \### Application \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: myapp: type: \'java:\' hooks: build: \[2\] web:
commands: start: \[3\] \`\`\` 1. \[A Java
version\](/languages/java/\_index.md#supported-versions), e,g.:
\`java:21\` 2. \[Hooks define what happens when building the
application\](../../create-apps/hooks/\_index.md). This build process
typically generates an executable file such as a uber-jar. For example,
\`mvn clean package\`. 3. \[The commands key defines the command to
launch the
application\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#web-commands).
For example, \`java -jar file.jar\`. 4. In the start\'s command needs to
receive the port where the application will execute thought the \`PORT\`
environment. That\'s best when your app follows the port bind principle.
For example, \`java -jar jar \--port=\$PORT\`.

### Note

Be aware that after the build, it creates a read-only system. You have
the [mount option to create a writable
folder](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#mounts).

\### Route \`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://{default}/\": type: upstream
upstream: \"myapp:http\" \[1\] \"https://www.{default}/\": type:
redirect to: \"https://{default}/\" applications: myapp: type: \'java:\'
hooks: build: \[2\] web: commands: start: \[3\] \`\`\` 1. It defines the
application will link in the route. For example,\`\"myapp:http\"\`.

### Note

Application instances have a limited amount of memory at build time,
which has a maximum of 8 GB. At runtime that limit depends on the
resources you have defined for your application container using
`upsun resources:set`. A stateless application can be scaled
horizontally to multiple application instances with
`upsun resources:set` or by using Varnish in a load balancer
configuration.

\## Microservices You have the option to use several languages in
microservices. If you\'re using Java there are several options to
aggregate these services into a microservices: \* \[Maven
Modules\](https://maven.apache.org/guides/mini/guide-multiple-modules.html)
\* \[Gradle
Multi-project\](https://guides.gradle.org/creating-multi-project-builds/)
\* \[Git submodules\](/development/submodules.md) \[Upsun supports
multiple applications\](../../create-apps/multi-app/\_index.md) and
there are two options: \* One application YAML file to each application
\* Aggregate all applications in a single file with an
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file \| Article \| Content \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\| \| \[Microservices in the cloud, part
two\](https://platform.sh/blog/2019/microservices-in-the-cloud-part-two/)
\|
\[Source\](https://github.com/EventosJEspanol/latin-america-micro-profile)
\| \| \[Microservices in the cloud, part
one\](https://platform.sh/blog/2019/microservices-in-the-cloud-part-one/)
\|
\[Source\](https://github.com/EventosJEspanol/latin-america-micro-profile)
\| \| \[Multiple
Applications\](https://community.platform.sh/t/multiple-applications-tomcat/468)
\| \[Source\](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/tomcat-multi-app)
\| \| \[Configure multi-applications with
\`.upsun/config.yaml\`\](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-configure-multi-applications-with-applications-yaml/552)
\|
\[Source\](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/tomcat-multi-app-applications)
\|

### Note

You can load balance to some or all applications in the project cluster.

While the table above shows examples for Platform.sh rather than for
Upsun, the same rules apply with only slight changes in configuration.

\## Access to managed services Upsun provides \[managed
services\](/add-services/\_index.md) such as databases, cache and search
engines. However, you can use a database or any services such as a
transition process, just be aware of the
\[firewall\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#firewall).
When applications need to access a service, it is important to include
the \[\`relationships\`
key\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#relationships).
By default an application may not talk to any other container without a
\`relationship\` explicitly allowing access. To connect to a service
from your deployed application, you need to pass the relationships
information into your application\'s configuration. The way to do so
varies with the application. The most common mechanisms are listed
below. \### Overwrite If you are using a framework that follows the
\[Twelve-Factor App\](https://12factor.net/) methodology, particularly
the \[third point\](https://12factor.net/config), you can configure the
application directly from environment variables. Examples of such
frameworks include Spring, Eclipse MicroProfile Config, Quarkus, and
Micronauts. Service credentials are available within the \[service
environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables),
or the \[\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

Assuming the relationship `postgresql` is configured to grant access to
a PostgreSQL service container, you can map the automatically generated
environment variable (`POSTGRESQL_HOST`) to whatever your application
expects to use:

.environment `export DB_HOST=$POSTGRESQL_HOST`

This sets environment variables with the names your app needs, and the
values from [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

This variable is a base64-encoded JSON object with keys of the
relationship name and values of arrays of relationship endpoint
definitions.

Upsun supports the `jq` tool, which allows to extract information from
this JSON.

.environment
`` export DB_HOST=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".postgresql[0].host"` ``

This sets environment variables with names your app needs and the values
from [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).

\| Article \| Source \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\| \| \[Spring Data
MongoDB\](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-overwrite-spring-data-mongodb-variable-to-access-platform-sh-services/528)
\|
\[Source\](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/java-overwrite-configuration/tree/master/spring-mongodb)
\| \| \[Jakarta EE/MicroProfile
Config\](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-overwrite-configuration-to-jakarta-microprofile-to-access-platform-sh-services/520)
\|
\[Source\](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/java-overwrite-configuration/tree/master/jakarta-nosql)
\| \| \[Spring Data
JPA\](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-overwrite-spring-data-variable-to-access-platform-sh-services/518)
\|
\[Source\](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/java-overwrite-configuration/tree/master/spring-jpa)
\| \| \[Payara
JPA\](https://community.platform.sh/t/how-to-overwrite-variables-to-payara-jpa-access-platform-sh-sql-services/519)
\|
\[Source\](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/java-overwrite-configuration/blob/master/payara/README.md)
\|

### Note

While the table above shows examples for Platform.sh rather than for
Upsun, the same rules apply with only slight changes in configuration.

To reduce the number of lines in the application file and to make it
cleaner, you have the option to move the variable environment to another
file: a \[\`.environment\`
file\](../../development/variables/set-variables.md#set-variables-via-script).
\*\*Example:\*\* You can obtain relationship information through the
\[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
Say your application has a relationship named \`\`postgresql\`\` to a
database service named \`postgresql\`:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

.environment
`export DB_HOST=${POSTGRESQL_HOST} export DB_PASSWORD=${POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD} export DB_USER=${POSTGRESQL_USERNAME} export DB_DATABASE=${POSTGRESQL_PATH} export JDBC=jdbc:postgresql://${HOST}/${DATABASE} export JAVA_MEMORY=-Xmx$(jq .info.limits.memory /run/config.json)m export JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_MEMORY -XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError"`

This sets environment variables with the names your app needs, and the
values from [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

This `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` variable is a base64-encoded JSON object
with keys of the relationship name and values of arrays of relationship
endpoint definitions.

Upsun supports the `jq` tool, which allows to extract information from
this JSON.

.environment
`` export DB_HOST=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".postgresql[0].host"` export DB_PASSWORD=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".postgresql[0].password"` export DB_USER=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".postgresql[0].username"` export DB_DATABASE=`echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".postgresql[0].path"` export JDBC=jdbc:postgresql://${HOST}/${DATABASE} export JAVA_MEMORY=-Xmx$(jq .info.limits.memory /run/config.json)m export JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_MEMORY -XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError" ``

This sets environment variables with names your app needs and the values
from [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).

This \`.environment\` file can interact to each application file.
\*\*Example:\*\* \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which
must be unique within the project. myapp: type: \'java:21\' hooks:
build: ./mvnw package -DskipTests -Dquarkus.package.uber-jar=true
relationships: postgresql: web: commands: start: java -jar \$JAVA_OPTS
\$CREDENTIAL -Dquarkus.http.port=\$PORT jarfile.jar \`\`\` #Performance
tuning Java

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

There are a number of settings that can be adjusted for each application
to optimize its performance on Upsun. \## Memory limits The JVM
generally requires specifying a maximum memory size it is allowed to
use, using the \`Xmx\` parameter. That should be set based on the
available memory on the application container, which varies with its
size. To extract the container-scaled value on the command line, use
\`\$(jq .info.limits.memory /run/config.json)\`. You should also set the
\`ExitOnOutOfMemoryError\`. When you enable this option, the JVM exits
on the first occurrence of an out-of-memory error. Upsun will restart
the application automatically. These are the recommended parameters for
running a Java application. Thus, the command to use to start a Java
application is: \`\`\`bash java -jar -Xmx\$(jq .info.limits.memory
/run/config.json)m -XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError //The rest of the
arguments and the jar file. \`\`\` \## Garbage collection When migrating
the application to a cloud environment, it is often essential to analyze
the Garbage Collector\'s log and behavior. For this, there are two
options: \* Placing the log into the Upsun \`/var/log/app.log\` file
(which captures \`STDOUT\`). \* Creating a log file specifically for the
GC. To use the \`STDOUT\` log, you can add the parameter \`-XX: +
PrintGCDetails\`, E.g.: \`\`\`bash java -jar -Xmx\$(jq
.info.limits.memory /run/config.json)m -XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError
-XX:+PrintGCDetails //The rest of the arguments and the jar file. \`\`\`
Java supports a number of different garbage collection strategies. Which
one is optimal for your application varies depending on your available
memory, Java version, and application profile. Determining which is best
for your application is out of scope, but the main options and how to
enable them are: \| Name \| Command Flag \| Description \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|:\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--:\| \-\-\-\--:\|
\|Serial Garbage Collector\|-XX:+UseSerialGC\|This is the simplest GC
implementation, as it basically works with a single thread.\| \|Parallel
Garbage Collector\|-XX:+UseParallelGC\|Unlike Serial Garbage Collector,
this uses multiple threads for managing heap space. But it also freezes
other application threads while performing GC.\| \|CMS Garbage
Collector\|-XX:+USeParNewGC\|The Concurrent Mark Sweep (CMS)
implementation uses multiple garbage collector threads for garbage
collection. It\'s for applications that prefer shorter garbage
collection pauses, and that can afford to share processor resources with
the garbage collector while the application is running.\| \|G1 Garbage
Collector\|-XX:+UseG1GC\|Garbage First, G1, is for applications running
on multiprocessor machines with large memory space.\| The default
strategy on Java 9 and later is G1. The GC strategy to use can be set in
the start line with: \### Serial \`\`\`bash java -jar -Xmx\$(jq
.info.limits.memory /run/config.json)m -XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError
-XX:+PrintGCDetails -XX:+UseSerialGC //The rest of the arguments and the
jar file. \`\`\` \### Parallel Garbage Collector \`\`\`bash java -jar
-Xmx\$(jq .info.limits.memory /run/config.json)m
-XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError -XX:+PrintGCDetails -XX:+UseParallelGC //The
rest of the arguments and the jar file. \`\`\` \### CMS Garbage
Collector \`\`\`bash java -jar -Xmx\$(jq .info.limits.memory
/run/config.json)m -XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError -XX:+PrintGCDetails
-XX:+USeParNewGC //The rest of the arguments and the jar file. \`\`\`
\### G1 \`\`\`bash java -jar -Xmx\$(jq .info.limits.memory
/run/config.json)m -XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError -XX:+PrintGCDetails
-XX:+UseG1GC //The rest of the arguments and the jar file. \`\`\` \##
Java 8 Optimization Ideally, all applications should run the latest LTS
release of the JVM at least. That is currently Java 11. Java 11 has a
number of performance improvements, particularly on container-based
environments such as Upsun. However, in many cases, this isn\'t
possible. If you are still running on Java 8 there are two additional
considerations. The default garbage collector for Java 8 is Parallel GC.
In most cases G1 will offer better performance. We recommend enabling
it, as above. Furthermore, there is the \`UseStringDeduplication\` flag
which works to eliminate duplicate \`String\`s within the GC process.
That flag can save between 13% to 30% of memory, depending on
application. However, this can impact on the pause time of your app.
\`\`\`bash java -jar -Xmx\$(jq .info.limits.memory /run/config.json)m
-XX:+UseG1GC -XX:+UseStringDeduplication -XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError
-XX:+PrintGCDetails \`\`\` \## References \* \[Introduction to Garbage
Collection
Tuning\](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/14/gctuning/introduction-garbage-collection-tuning.html#GUID-326EB4CF-8C8C-4267-8355-21AB04F0D304)
#Restrict access to a service Upsun allows you to restrict access to a
service. In this tutorial, learn how to grant your Data team
\`read-only\` access to your production database. \## Before you start
You need: - A project with a database service - A \`viewer\` user on
your project \## 1. Add a read-only endpoint to your database service
Edit your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file and add the following
\[endpoints\](/add-services/mysql/\_index.md#define-permissions): -
\`website\` with \`admin\` access to the \`main\` database -
\`reporting\` with read-only \`ro\` access to the \`main\` database
\`\`\`yaml {} services: maindb: type: mariadb:10.5 configuration:
schemas: - main endpoints: website: default_schema: main privileges:
main: admin reporting: privileges: main: ro \`\`\` \## 2. Grant your app
access to the new endpoints Edit your app configuration and add new
relationships to your new endpoints: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
\# \... relationships: database: service: maindb endpoint: website
reports: service: maindb endpoint: reporting \`\`\` \## 3. Create a
worker with access to the read-only endpoint Edit your app configuration
to add a new worker which: - Does nothing (\`sleep infinity\`) - Can
access the read-only \`reporting\` endpoint - Allows SSH access to
\`viewer\` \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: workers: data_access:
mounts: {} commands: start: \| sleep infinity relationships: reports:
service: maindb endpoint: reporting access: ssh: viewer \`\`\` You\'re
done! From now on, your \`viewer\` users can SSH in to the worker
application, and connect to your database with read-only permissions.
#Structure Each environment you deploy on Upsun is built as a set of
containers. Each container is an isolated instance with specific
resources. Each environment has 2 to 4 types of containers, all usually
configured from your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. - One
\[\*router\*\](#router) - One or more \[\*app\* containers\](#apps) -
Zero or more \[\*service\* containers\](#services) - Zero or more
\[\*worker\* containers\](#workers) If you have two app containers, two
services (a database and a search engine), and a worker, requests to
your environment might look something like this: \![A user request goes
to the router, which sends it to either a Node.js app or a Python app.
Each app communicates separately with the database and search services
and sends responses to the user. The Node.js app triggers actions in a
worker, which communicates separately with the
database.\](/images/config-diagrams/structure-diagram.png) If you have
only one app container, your repository might look like this: \`\`\`text
project ├── .git ├── .upsun │ └── config.yaml └── \`\`\` \## Router Each
environment always has exactly one router. This router maps incoming
requests to the appropriate app container and provides basic caching of
responses, unless configured otherwise. The router is configured in a
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. If you don\'t include configuration, a
single \[default route is
deployed\](/define-routes/\_index.md#default-route-definition). Read
more about how to \[define routes\](/define-routes/\_index.md). \## Apps
You always need at least one app container, but you can have more. App
containers run the code you provide via your Git repository. They handle
requests from the outside world and can communicate with other
containers within the environment. Each app container is built from a
specific language image with a given version for the language. To
configure your apps, you usually create a single \`.upsun/config.yaml\`
file and place it in the repository root. Read more about how to
\[configure apps\](/create-apps/\_index.md). \## Services You don\'t
need any service containers, but you can add them as you like. Service
containers run predefined code for specific purposes, such as a database
or search service. You don\'t need to add their code yourself, just set
up how your apps communicate with them. Service containers are
configured by the \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. Read more about how to
\[add services\](/add-services/\_index.md). \## Workers You don\'t need
any worker containers, but you can add them as you like. Worker
containers are copies of an app containers that have no access to the
outside world and can have a different start command. They\'re useful
for continually running background processes. Read more about how to
\[work with workers\](/create-apps/workers.md). #Tethered local
development To test changes locally, you can connect your locally
running web server to service containers on an active Upsun environment.
This method requires less configuration than tools such as
\[DDEV\](./ddev.md), but may not perform well enough for everyday use.
Because it replies on a local web server, it\'s also less consistent
across your team. \## Before you begin You need: - A local copy of the
repository for a project running on Upsun. To get one, run
`upsun get PROJECT_ID `. Alternatively, you can clone an integrated
source repository and set the remote branch. To do so, run
`upsun project:set-remote PROJECT_ID `. - The \[Upsun
CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md) \## Create the tethered
connection 1. Create a new environment based on production. \`\`\`bash
upsun branch new-feature PRODUCTION_ENVIRONMENT_NAME \`\`\` If you\'re
using a \[source integration\](/integrations/source.html), open a
merge/pull request. 1. To open an SSH tunnel to the new environment\'s
services, run the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun tunnel:open \`\`\`
This command returns the addresses for SSH tunnels to all of your
services. 1. Export the \`PLATFORMSH_RELATIONSHIPS\` environment
variable with information from the open tunnel: \`\`\`bash export
PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS=\"\$(upsun tunnel:info \--encode)\" \`\`\` 1. Run
your application locally. Make sure it\'s set up to read configuration
from Upsun environment variables. If you app relies on other Upsun
environment configuration, such as routes or secret variables, make sure
to mock those variables as well. Your options for running the app depend
on the language and configuration. You can use the server for your
language, install a copy of Nginx, or use a virtual machine or Docker
image. 1. When you\'ve finished your work, close the tunnels to your
services by running the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun tunnel:close
\--all -y \`\`\` \## Connect to services directly With open tunnels to
all your services, you can also connect to the running services
directly. To get information on all running services, run the following
command: \`\`\`bash upsun tunnels \`\`\` You get a response similar to
the following: \`\`\`bash
+\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| Port \| Project \| Environment \| App \| Relationship \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| 30000 \| abcdefg123456 \| new-feature \| app \| cache \| \| 30001 \|
abcdefg123456 \| new-feature \| app \| database \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\`\`\` You can use the port information to connect directly to a
service. If you need more detailed information, such as a path or
password, run the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun tunnel:info \`\`\`
You can use the information returned to connect to the remote database
as if it were local. For example, the following command would connect to
a MySQL database running through a tethered connection: \`\`\`bash mysql
\--host=127.0.0.1 \--port=PORT \--user=USERNAME \--password=PASSWORD
\--database=PATH \`\`\` \## Next steps You can now use your local
environment to develop changes for review on Upsun environments. The
following examples show how you can take advantage of that. \### Onboard
collaborators It\'s essential for every developer on your team to have a
local development environment to work on. Place the local configuration
into a script to ensure everyone has this. You can merge this change
into production. 1. Create a new environment called \`local-config\`. 1.
To set up a local environment for a new Upsun environment, create an
executable script. \`\`\`bash touch init-local.sh && chmod +x
init-local.sh \`\`\` 1. Fill it with something similar to the following
example, depending on your app and configuration: \`\`\`bash {}
#!/usr/bin/env bash ENVIRONMENT=\$1 PARENT=\$2 \# Create the new
environment upsun branch \$ENVIRONMENT \$PARENT \# Open a tunnel to the
current environment upsun tunnel:open \--no-interaction \# Mock Upsun
environment variables export PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS=\"\$(upsun
tunnel:info \--encode)\" \# Add any other variables you need \# If
necessary, install dependencies here \# Add the command to run the
server \`\`\` 1. To commit and push the revisions, run the following
command: \`\`\`bash git add . && git commit -m \"Add local
configuration\" && git push upsun local-config \`\`\` 1. Merge the
change into production. Once the script is merged into production, any
user can set up their local environment by running the following
commands: \`\`\`bash upsun PROJECT_ID cd PROJECT_NAME ./init-local.sh
PROJECT_ID another-new-feature PRODUCTION_ENVIRONMENT_NAME \`\`\`
#Untethered local development It\'s possible to run your entire site
locally on your computer. That way you get better performance as
there\'s no extra latency to connect to a remote database and doesn\'t
require an active Internet connection to work. But it does require
running all necessary services (databases, search servers, and so on)
locally. These can be set up however you prefer, although Upsun
recommends using a virtual machine to make it easier to share
configuration between developers. If you already have a development
workflow in place that works for you, you can keep using it with
virtually no changes. To synchronize data from an environment on Upsun,
consult the documentation for each
\[service\](../../add-services/\_index.md). Each service type has its
own native data import/export process and Upsun doesn\'t get in the way
of that. It\'s also straightforward to \[download user
files\](/learn/tutorials/exporting.md) from your application using
rsync. #Build and deploy Each time you push a change to your app through
Git or activate an \[environment\](/environments/\_index.md), your app
goes through a process to be built and deployed. If your app is
redeployed with no changes to its codebase, the output of the previous
build and deploy process is reused. The build process looks through the
configuration files in your repository and assembles the necessary
containers. The deploy process makes those containers live, replacing
any previous versions, with minimal interruption in service. \![The
steps in the build and deploy
process\](/images/workflow/build-pipeline.svg \"0.50\") Hooks are points
in the build and deploy process where you can inject a custom script.
\## The build The outcome of the build process is designed to be
repeatable and reusable. Each app in a project is built separately.
Container configuration depends exclusively on your configuration files.
So each container is tied to a specific Git commit. If there are no new
changes for a given container, the existing container can be reused.
This saves you the time the build step would take. This means the build
is independent of the given environment and preview environments are
perfect copies of production. If you use environment variables to set up
different build configuration options for different environments, your
build step isn\'t reused and your preview environments may differ from
production. You can\'t connect to services (like databases) during the
build step. Once the app has gone through all of the build steps, it can
connect to services in the deploy process. \### Build steps 1.
\*\*Validate configuration\*\*: The configuration is checked by
validating the \`.upsun\` directory and scanning the repository for any
app configuration to validate. 2. \*\*Pull container images\*\*: Any
container images that have been built before and that don\'t have any
changes are pulled to be reused. 3. \*\*Install dependencies\*\*: If you
have specified additional global dependencies, they\'re downloaded
during this step. This is useful for commands you may need in the build
hook. 4. \*\*Run build flavor commands\*\*: For some languages (NodeJS,
PHP), a series of standard commands are run based on the build flavor.
You can change the flavor or skip the commands by specifying it in your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. 5. \*\*Run build hook\*\*: The \`build\`
hook comprises one or more shell commands that you write to finish
creating your production code base. It could be compiling Sass files,
running a bundler, rearranging files on disk, or compiling. The
committed build hook runs in the build container. During this time,
commands have write access to the file system, but there aren\'t
connections to other containers (services and other apps). Note that you
can \[cancel deployments stuck on the build
hook\](/environments/cancel-activity.md). 6. \*\*Freeze app
container\*\*: The file system is frozen and produces a read-only
container image, which is the final build artifact. \## The deploy The
deploy process connects each container from the build process and any
services. The connections are defined in your app and services
configuration. So unlike the build process, you can now access other
containers, but the file system is read-only. \### Deploy steps 1.
\*\*Hold requests\*\*: Incoming \[idempotent
requests\](https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-methods/http-methods.xhtml)
(like \`GET\`, \`PUT\`, \`DELETE\` but \*\*not\*\* \`POST\`, \`PATCH\`
etc.) are held. 1. \*\*Unmount current containers\*\*: Any previous
containers are disconnected from their file system mounts. 1. \*\*Mount
file systems\*\*: The file system is connected to the new containers.
New branches have file systems cloned from their parent. 1. \*\*Expose
services\*\*: Networking connections are opened between any containers
specified in your app and services configurations. 1. \*\*Run (pre-)
start commands\*\*: The
\[commands\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#web-commands)
necessary to start your app are run. Often this stage will only include
a start command, which is restarted if ever terminated going forward.
You may also, however, define a \`pre_start\` command, when you need to
run \_per-instance\_ actions. In this case, as you might expect, the
\`pre_start\` command is run, then the \`start\` command. 1. \*\*Run
deploy hook\*\*: The \`deploy\` hook is any number of shell commands you
can run to finish your deployment. This can include clearing caches,
running database migrations, and setting configuration that requires
relationship information. 1. \*\*Serve requests\*\*: Incoming requests
to your newly deployed application are allowed. After the deploy process
is over, any commands in your \`post_deploy\` hook are run. \##
Deployment philosophy Upsun values consistency over availability,
acknowledging that it\'s nearly impossible to have both. During a
deployment, the \[deploy
hook\](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#deploy-hook) may make
database changes that are incompatible with the previous code version.
Having both old and new code running in parallel on different servers
could therefore result in data loss. Upsun believes that a minute of
planned downtime for authenticated users is preferable to a risk of race
conditions resulting in data corruption, especially with a CDN
continuing to serve anonymous traffic uninterrupted. That brief downtime
applies only to the environment changes are being pushed to. Deployments
to a staging or development branch have no impact on the production
environment and cause no downtime. \## What\'s next \* See how to
\[configure your app\](/create-apps/\_index.md) for the entire process.
\* Learn more about \[using build and deploy
hooks\](/create-apps/hooks/\_index.md). #Configure environments From
your project\'s main page in the Console, you can see all your
environments as a list or a project tree: \![List of all environments as
a tree\](/images/management-console/environments.png \"0.5\") In this
overview, the names of inactive environments are lighter. Selecting an
environment allows you to see details about it, such as its \[activity
feed\](#activity-feed), \[services\](#service-information),
\[metrics\](../../increase-observability/metrics/\_index.md), and
\[backups\](../../environments/backup.md). \## Activity Feed When you
access an environment in the Console, you can see its \[activity
feed\](../../increase-observability/logs/access-logs.md#activity-logs).
This allows you to check which activities have happened or are currently
happening on the selected environment: \![Environment activity
list\](/images/management-console/activity.png \"0.5\") You can filter
activities by type (such as merge, sync, or redeploy). \## Actions on
environments Each environment offers ways to keep environments up to
date with one another: \*
\[![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
\*\*Branch\*\*\](/glossary.md#branch) to create a new child environment.
\*
\[![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TWVyZ2U8L3RpdGxlPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8Zz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8Zz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxnPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8Zz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMjIuNywyMi43TDIyLjcsMjIuN2MwLjQtMC40LDAuNC0xLDAtMS40bC0yLTJjLTAuNC0wLjQtMS0wLjQtMS40LDBsMCwwYy0wLjQsMC40LTAuNCwxLDAsMS40bDIsMiBDMjEuNywyMy4xLDIyLjMsMjMuMSwyMi43LDIyLjd6IE0xMy43LDExSDE2djQuOGMwLDAuNS0wLjIsMS0wLjYsMS40bC00LjEsNC4xYy0wLjQsMC40LTAuNCwxLDAsMS40aDBjMC40LDAuNCwxLDAuNCwxLjQsMCBsNC43LTQuN2MwLjQtMC40LDAuNi0wLjksMC42LTEuNFYxMWgyLjNjMC40LDAsMC43LTAuNSwwLjQtMC45bC0zLjMtMy4zYy0wLjItMC4yLTAuNS0wLjItMC43LDBsLTMuMywzLjMgQzEzLDEwLjUsMTMuMywxMSwxMy43LDExeiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPC9nPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPC9nPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDwvZz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)
\*\*Merge\*\*\](/glossary.md#merge) to copy the current environment into
its parent. \*
\[![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
\*\*Sync\*\*\](/glossary.md#sync) to copy changes from its parent
environment into the current environment. There are also additional
options: \*
![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
\*\*Settings\*\* to \[configure the
environment\](#environment-settings). \*
![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
\*\*More\*\* to get more options. \* \*\*URLs\*\* to access the deployed
environment from the web. \* \*\*SSH\*\* to access your project using
SSH. \* \*\*Code\*\* \* \*\*CLI\*\* for the command to get your project
set up locally with the \[Upsun CLI\](../cli/\_index.md). \* \*\*Git\*\*
for the command to clone the codebase via Git. If you\'re using Upsun as
your primary remote repository, the command clones from the project. If
you have set up an \[external
integration\](../../integrations/source/\_index.md), the command clones
directly from the integrated remote repository. If the project uses an
external integration to a repository that you haven\'t been given access
to, you can\'t clone until your access has been updated. See how to
\[troubleshoot source
integrations\](../../integrations/source/troubleshoot.md). \##
Environment URL When you access an environment in the Console, you can
view its URL: \![Environment URL and
details\](/images/management-console/env-url.png \"0.25\") While the
environment is loading in the Console, a \`Waiting for URL\...\` message
is displayed instead of the URL. If this message isn\'t updated once
your \[default
environment\](../../environments/\_index.md#default-environment)\'s
information is loaded, follow these steps: 1. Check that \[you have
defined routes\](../../define-routes/\_index.md) for your default
environment. 2. Verify that your
\[application\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md),
\[services\](../../add-services/\_index.md), and
\[routes\](../../define-routes/\_index.md) configurations are correct.
3. Check that your default environment is
\[active\](../../environments/deactivate-environment.md#reactivate-an-environment).
\## Environment settings To access the settings of an environment, click
![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
\*\*Settings\*\* within that environment. \![Settings for an
environment\](/images/management-console/env-settings.png \"0.75\") \###
Environment name Under \*\*Environment name\*\*, you can edit the name
and type of your environment and view its parent environment:
\![Environment status\](/images/management-console/env-name.png \"0.5\")
\### Status Under \*\*Status\*\*, you can check whether or not your
environment is \[active\](/glossary.md#active-environment).
\![Environment status\](/images/management-console/env-status.png
\"0.5\") For preview environments, you can \[change their
status\](../../environments/deactivate-environment.md). \### Outgoing
emails Under \*\*Outgoing emails\*\*, you can allow your environment to
\[send emails\](../../development/email.md): \![Environment
email\](/images/management-console/env-email.png \"0.75\") \### Hide
from search engines Under \*\*Hide from search engines\*\*, you can tell
\[search engines to ignore the
site\](../../environments/search-engine-visibility.md): \![Environment
search\](/images/management-console/env-search.png \"0.5\") \### HTTP
access control Under \*\*HTTP access control\*\*, you can \[control
access to your environment using HTTP
methods\](../../environments/http-access-control.md): \![Settings
control access with password and by
IP\](/images/management-console/settings-basics-access-control.png
\"0.5\") \### Variables Under \*\*Variables\*\*, you can define
\[environment variables\](../../development/variables/\_index.md):
\![Configure Upsun environment
variables\](/images/management-console/settings-variables-environment.png
\"0.6\") \## Service information For each environment, you can view
information about how your routes, services, and apps are currently
configured. To do so, click \*\*Services\*\*. By default, you see
configured routes. \### Routes The \*\*Router\*\* section shows a list
of all the \[routes configured on your
environment\](../../define-routes/\_index.md). You can see each route\'s
type and check if caching and server side includes have been enabled for
it: \![Services:
routes\](/images/management-console/service-tab/routes.png \"0.5\") To
view the configuration file where your routes are set up, click
\*\*Configuration\*\*. \### Applications To see detailed information
about an app container, select it in the tree or list on the left-hand
side: \![Services: app
overview\](/images/management-console/service-tab/app-overview.png
\"0.5\") The \*\*Overview\*\* tab gives you information about your app.
You can see: \* The language version, the container size, the amount of
persistent disk, the number of cron jobs, and the command to SSH into
the container. \* A summary of \[metrics for the
environment\](../../increase-observability/metrics/\_index.md). \* All
cron jobs with their name, frequency, and command. \* All workers with
their name, size, amount of persistent disk, and command to SSH into the
container. To view \[the configuration file where your app is set
up\](../../create-apps/), click \*\*Configuration\*\*. \### Services To
see detailed information about a \[running
service\](../../add-services/\_index.md), select it in the tree or list
on the left-hand side: \![Services: service
overview\](/images/management-console/service-tab/service-overview.png
\"0.5\") The \*\*Overview\*\* gives you information about the selected
service. You can see the service version, the container size, and the
disk size, if you\'ve configured a persistent disk. You can also see a
summary of \[metrics for the
environment\](../../increase-observability/metrics/\_index.md). To view
the configuration file where your services are set up, click
\*\*Configuration\*\*. #HTTPS Using HTTPS for your site helps ensure
your users\' information remains secure. HTTPS provides enhanced
security thanks to the following characteristics: - With HTTPS, data is
encrypted so user activity can\'t be tracked and user information can\'t
be stolen. - HTTPS prevents the corruption of files transferred from a
web server to a website and vice-versa. - HTTPS also authenticates
websites, which helps build trust with your users. To enable HTTPS on
your site, you need \[Transport Layer Security (TLS)
certificates\](#tls-certificates). \## TLS certificates Upsun
automatically provides TLS certificates for all sites and environments.
These certificates are issued at no charge by \[Let\'s
Encrypt\](https://letsencrypt.org/) and cover most needs. They\'re valid
for 90 days and automatically renewed 28 days before expiration. To use
them, you only need to \[specify HTTPS
routes\](../define-routes/https.md#enable-https). Note that
\[limitations\](../define-routes/https.md#lets-encrypt-limitations)
apply. If you encounter issues with the TLS certificates provided by
Upsun, check that \[TLS encryption is
up-and-running\](../domains/troubleshoot.md#verify-ssltls-encryption).
If you don\'t want to use the TLS certificates provided by Upsun,
configure your own \[third-party TLS
certificates\](../domains/steps/tls.md). \### Let\'s Encrypt limitations
When you use the Let\'s Encrypt \[TLS certificates\](#tls-certificates)
provided by Upsun, the following limitations apply. Let\'s Encrypt
allows a maximum of 100 hostnames per certificate. You can have 1 Let\'s
Encrypt certificate for each of your environments. If you define both a
\`{default}\` and a \`www.{default}\` route for each domain you use, you
can add up to 50 hostnames. Going over this limitation results in a
warning on deploy and no new TLS certificates are issued. If you need
more hostnames, you can obtain additional certificates or a wildcard
certificate from a \[third-party issuer\](../domains/steps/tls.md).
Alternatively, consider splitting your project up into multiple Upsun
projects. Please note that when using multiple domains, the Common Name
(CN) to which the certificate is issued to is not guaranteed to be the
same on each certificate renewal. \### Certificate renewals When you use
the \[TLS certificates\](#tls-certificates) provided by Upsun,
certificate renewals are automatic. They trigger a redeployment of your
environment. During this redeployment, required security and system
upgrades are applied to your containers. So the duration of the
redeployment depends on what needs to be upgraded. \## Enable HTTPS To
enable HTTPS, add a routing configuration similar to the following:
\`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://{default}/\": type: upstream upstream:
\"myapp:http\" \"https://www.{default}/\": type: redirect to:
\"https://{default}/\" \`\`\` All traffic to your domain is then sent to
your app. The \`www\` subdomain redirects to the \[default
domain\](../define-routes/\_index.md#default). This also includes
redirecting requests from HTTP to HTTPS. For more information, see how
to \[define routes\](../define-routes/\_index.md). \## Optional:
Configure TLS connections When you \[specify HTTPS
routes\](#enable-https), you can use the \`tls\` setting to further
configure your TLS connections. \### Enforce TLS 1.3 Although you can
still use TLS 1.2, TLS 1.3 is faster and more secure. To instruct your
web server to automatically reject TLS 1.2 connections, enforce TLS 1.3
using the \`min_version\` setting: \`\`\`yaml {} routes:
\"https://{default}/\": \# \... tls: min_version: TLSv1.3 \`\`\` Note
that TLS versions older than 1.2 are deprecated and are rejected by
default. \### Enable HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)
\[HSTS\](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Strict-Transport-Security)
forces clients to always communicate with your site over HTTPS. To
enable HSTS, use \`strict_transport_security\` in a configuration
similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://{default}/\":
\# \... tls: strict_transport_security: enabled: true
include_subdomains: true preload: true \`\`\` The following table
presents the possible properties for \`strict_transport_security\`: \|
Name \| Type \| Default \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`enabled\` \| \`boolean\` \| \`null\` \| If set to \`true\`, HSTS is
enabled for 1 year. If set to \`false\`, other properties are ignored.
\| \| \`include_subdomains\` \| \`boolean\` \| \`false\` \| To specify
whether HSTS applies to all subdomains. \| \| \`preload\` \| \`boolean\`
\| \`false\` \| To add your website to the \[HSTS preload
list\](https://hstspreload.org/). Thanks to this list, most browsers are
informed that your site requires HSTS before an HSTS header response is
even issued. \| Note that when you enable or disable HSTS, the entire
domain is affected. Make sure you only add the HSTS configuration to a
single route. Having different routes with conflicting HSTS
configurations can cause issues. \### Enable mTLS Standard TLS
connections are useful to verify the identity of web servers and their
certificates. But you can also instruct your web server to verify the
identity of clients and their certificates. This allows you to restrict
access to trusted users. To do so, enable mTLS by adding the following
configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://{default}/\": \# \...
tls: client_authentication: \"require\" \`\`\` By default, all valid TLS
certificates issued by a legitimate certificate authority are accepted.
But you can instruct your web server to only accept TLS certificates
issued by specific or even custom certificate authorities. To do so, add
a configuration similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} routes:
\"https://{default}/\": \# \... tls: client_authentication: \"require\"
client_certificate_authorities: - !include type: string path:
root-ca1.crt - !include type: string path: root-ca2.crt \`\`\` In this
case, the certificate files are resolved relative to the \`.upsun\`
directory. Alternatively, you can specify the certificates inline in the
file: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://{default}/\": \# \... tls:
client_authentication: \"require\" client_certificate_authorities: - \|
\-\-\-\--BEGIN CERTIFICATE\-\-\-\-- \### Several lines of characters
here \### \-\-\-\--END CERTIFICATE\-\-\-\-- - \| \-\-\-\--BEGIN
CERTIFICATE\-\-\-\-- \### Several lines of different characters here
\### \-\-\-\--END CERTIFICATE\-\-\-\-- \`\`\` #Keep your Git repository
clean When a Git repository contains a high number of references and
files, the performance of Git can decrease. This is why most Git
providers have repository size limits in place (for more information,
see the
\[GitHub\](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-large-files/about-large-files-on-github),
\[GitLab\](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/gitlab_com/index.html#account-and-limit-settings)
and
\[Bitbucket\](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/reduce-repository-size/)
documentation). The Upsun API and
\[Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md) are closely tied to Git.
When the performance of Git decreases, Upsun API servers also become
slower. As a user, you can then experience significant latencies. If
your repository becomes too large, your Console may even become
unresponsive, leaving you unable to access your project. To avoid such
issues, make sure you keep your Git repository clean by following the
instructions on this page. If you\'re already facing performance issues
and suspect they might be related to the size of your Git repository,
see how you can \[troubleshoot a sizeable Git
repository\](#troubleshoot-a-sizeable-git-repository). \## Enable the
automated pruning of old branches in your project To keep your
repository size to a minimum, make sure that branches that don\'t exist
anymore in your repository have also been deleted from Upsun. To
automate this process, when setting up a \[source
integration\](/integrations/\_index.md), enable the \`prune-branches\`
option. If you already have a source integration set up and want to
enable the \`prune-branches\` option, follow these steps:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

1.  To enable the `prune-branches` option, you must first enable the
    `fetch-branches` option. To do so, run the following command:

    `upsun integration:update --project PROJECT_ID SOURCE_INTEGRATION_ID --fetch-branches true`

2.  Then, to enable the `prune-branches` option, run the following
    command:

    `upsun integration:update --project PROJECT_ID SOURCE_INTEGRATION_ID --prune-branches true`

<!-- -->

1.  Navigate to your project.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
3.  Click **Project Settings**.
4.  Click **Integrations** and select your source integration.
5.  Click **Edit**.
6.  Enter your access token and click **Continue**.
7.  Select your repository and check the following boxes:
    -   **Fetch branches from the remote repository to your project**
        (`fetch-branches` option, mandatory to enable `prune-branches`).
    -   **Remove branches from your project that have disappeared
        remotely (requires the fetch branches option to be enabled)**
        (`prune-branches` option).
8.  Click **Save**.

\## Upload your files through mounts Keeping too many files, especially
large binary files, in your Git repository can cause performance and
stability issues. Therefore, Upsun recommends that you only commit your
source code in Git. To upload any other files to your app, \[create
mounts\](https://docs.platform.sh/create-apps/app-reference.html#mounts)
and \[transfer your files directly to
them\](https://docs.platform.sh/development/file-transfer.html#transfer-a-file-to-a-mount).

### Note

Upsun does not currently support Git Large File Storage.

\## Troubleshoot a sizeable Git repository If you\'re experiencing
latencies or can\'t access your Console anymore, your Git repository may
have become too large and may need to be cleaned up. To do so, follow
these instructions: 1. Remove old, unwanted files from your repository
(especially large files). You can do it manually, or use a tool such as
\[BFG Repo-Cleaner\](https://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/). 2.
Remove stale branches from your repository and Upsun project. 3. Rebase
and/or squash commits to clean up your history. 4. Make sure you
\[enable the automated pruning of old branches in your
project\](#enable-the-automated-pruning-of-old-branches-in-your-project)
and \[upload your files through
mounts\](#upload-your-files-through-mounts) to avoid facing the same
situation in the future. #PHP performance tuning

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

Once your app is up and running it still needs to be kept fast. Upsun
offers a wide degree of flexibility in how PHP behaves, but that does
mean you may need to take a few steps to ensure your site is running
optimally. The following recommendations are guidelines only. They\'re
also listed in about the order to investigate them. \## Upgrade to PHP 8
To make a PHP-based site run faster, the first step is to upgrade the
PHP version. Upgrading the PHP version might require changes to your
app. For more details and recommendations, see the \[PHP migration
guides\](https://www.php.net/manual/en/migration80.php). To change your
PHP version, change the \[\`type\` in your app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#types).
Before merging to production, test the change on a branch and make sure
that your app is working as expected. \## Optimize the FPM worker count
PHP-FPM uses a fixed number of simultaneous worker processes to handle
incoming requests. If more simultaneous requests are received than the
number of workers, then some requests wait until worker processes are
available. The default worker count is set to a conservative default
value. To determine and set the optimal value for your app, see
\[PHP-FPM sizing\](./fpm.md). \## OPcache preloading OPcache preloading
loads selected files into shared memory, making their content
(functions, classes) globally available for requests. It also removes
the need to include these files later. When OPcache is correctly
configured, it can result in significant improvements to both CPU and
memory usage. Consult your framework\'s documentation to see if there
are recommendations for optimal preload configuration or ready-to-use
preload scripts. OPcache is only available on PHP 7.4+ and uses PHP-CGI.
If your PHP version doesn\'t support OPcache, this is a good reason to
upgrade. Note that the only way to clear the preload cache is by
\[restarting PHP-FPM\](#restart-php-fpm). If you have \[disabled OPcache
timestamp validation\](#disable-opcache-timestamp-validation), you need
to clear the OPcache explicitly on deployment (which can be done by
restarting PHP-FPM). \### Enable OPcache preloading To enable
preloading, add a variable that specifies a preload script: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' variables: php:
opcache.preload: \'PRELOAD_SCRIPT\' \`\`\` \`PRELOAD_SCRIPT\` is a file
path relative to the \[app
root\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#root-directory).
It may be any PHP script that calls \`opcache_compile_file()\`. The
following example uses a \`preload.php\` file as the preload script.
This script loads all \`.php\` files in the \`vendor\` directory (and
subdirectories): \`\`\`php {}

\$file) { // This is the important part!
opcache_compile_file(\$file\[0\]); } \`\`\` \### Configure OPcache
OPcache needs to be tuned before production usage and can be configured
the \[same way as PHP\](./\_index.md#customize-php-settings). Let the
app run for a while before tuning OPcache since the preload script may
change some of the configuration. \#### Set the maximum number of cached
files \`opcache.max_accelerated_files\` is the maximum number of files
that OPcache can cache at once. If this value is lower than the number
of files in the app, the cache becomes less effective because it starts
\[thrashing\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrashing\_(computer_science)).
To determine the maximum number of files to cache, follow these
steps: 1. Connect to the container via SSH using the
\[CLI\](../../development/ssh/\_index.md) by running \`upsun ssh\`. 2.
Determine roughly how many \`.php\` files your app has by running this
command from \[your app
root\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#root-directory):
\`\`\`bash find . -type f -name \'\*.php\' \| wc -l \`\`\` Note that the
returned valued is an approximation. Some apps have PHP code in files
that don\'t end in \`.php\` or files that are generated at runtime. 3.
Set \`opcache.max_accelerated_files\` to a value slightly higher than
the returned number. PHP automatically rounds the value up to the next
highest prime number. An example configuration: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' variables: php:
\'opcache.max_accelerated_files\': 22000 \`\`\` \#### Set memory
consumption \`opcache.memory_consumption\` is the total memory (in
megabytes) that OPcache can use with FastCGI. If the app uses more than
this, the cache starts
\[thrashing\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrashing\_(computer_science))
and becomes less effective. Determining the optimal limit to memory
consumption requires executing code via a web request to get adequate
statistics. \[CacheTool\](https://github.com/gordalina/cachetool) is an
open-source tool to help you get the statistics. To determine the total
amount of memory to use, follow these steps: 1. Connect to the container
via SSH using the \[CLI\](../../development/ssh/\_index.md) by running
\`upsun ssh\`. 2. Change to the \`/tmp\` directory (or any other
non-web-accessible writable directory) with \`cd /tmp\`. 3. Download
CacheTool with \`curl -sLO
https://github.com/gordalina/cachetool/releases/latest/download/cachetool.phar\`.
4. Make CacheTool executable with \`chmod +x cachetool.phar\`. 5. Check
the OPcache status for FastCGI commands by running the following
command: \`\`\`bash php cachetool.phar opcache:status \--fcgi=\$SOCKET
\`\`\` The \`\--fcgi=\$SOCKET\` option ensures the PHP-FPM process on
the server connects through the right socket. 6. Analyze the output to
determine the optimal value for \`opcache.memory_consumption\`. The most
important values from CacheTool\'s output are the following: - \`Memory
used\` - \`Memory free\` - \`Oom restarts\` (out of memory restarts) If
the value is different than 0, you don\'t have enough memory allocated
to OPcache. If \`Memory free\` is too low or \`Oom Restarts\` too high,
set a higher value for memory consumption. 7. Set
\`opcache.memory_consumption\`. Note: The unit for
\`opcache.memory_consumption\` is megabytes. An example configuration:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' variables: php:
\'opcache.memory_consumption\': 96 \`\`\` 8. \[Restart
PHP-FPM\](#restart-php-fpm) and make sure that OPcache works as expected
by rerunning CacheTool with the following command: \`\`\`bash php
cachetool.phar opcache:status \--fcgi=\$SOCKET \`\`\` 9. Remove
CacheTool by deleting the \`cachetools.phar\` file with \`rm -rf
cachetools.phar\`. \### Disable OPcache timestamp validation By default,
OPcache checks that the cached version of a file is always up-to-date.
This means that every time a cached file is used, OPcache compares it to
the file on disk. If that file has changed, it gets reloaded and
re-cached. This allows to support apps that generate compiled PHP code
from user configuration. If you know your code isn\'t going to change
outside a new deployment, you can disable that check and get a small
performance improvement. Timestamp validation can be disabled by adding
the following variable to your \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md): \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' variables: php:
\'opcache.validate_timestamps\': 0 \`\`\` When you have disabled OPcache
timestamp validation, you need to explicitly clear OPcache on deployment
by \[restarting PHP-FPM\](#restart-php-fpm). Note: If your app generates
PHP code at runtime based on user configuration, don\'t disable
timestamp validation. Doing so would prevent updates to the generated
code from being loaded. \## Restart PHP-FPM To force a restart of
PHP-FPM: 1. Connect to your app container via SSH using the
\[CLI\](../../development/ssh/\_index.md) by running \`upsun ssh\`. 2.
Run \`pkill -f -u \"\$(whoami)\" php-fpm\`. \## Optimize your code To
optimize your app, consider using a
\[profiler\](../../increase-observability/application-metrics/\_index.md).
A profiler helps determine what slow spots can be found and addressed
and helps improve performance. #Set up a custom domain on a preview
environment \[Preview environments\](/glossary.md#preview-environment)
in your project can\'t use the custom domain \[set up on your production
environment\](../steps/\_index.md).\
By default and for each preview environment, Upsun automatically
replaces the custom production domain with an automatically generated
URL. If you don\'t want to use these default URLs, you can add a custom
domain to each of your preview environments (\`staging\` or
\`development\` \[environment types\](/glossary.md#environment-type)).
To do so, no need to modify your \[routes
configuration\](../../define-routes/\_index.md). When you add a new
custom domain for a preview environment, just attach it to the custom
production domain it replaces. If you have multiple custom production
domains, you need to select which one you\'re replacing.

### Example

You have two environments, a production environment and a staging
environment. You've added the `example.com` custom domain to your
production environment.

You want to add the `staging.example.com` custom domain to your staging
environment. To do so, you need to attach the new `staging.example.com`
custom domain to its corresponding custom production domain
`example.com`.

You can then access your staging environment through
`staging.example.com`, and still access your production environment
through `example.com`.

If you have multiple custom domains on your production environment, when
you set up a custom domain on a preview environment, you don\'t need to
update your \[routes configuration\](../../define-routes/\_index.md)
either. Upsun automatically figures out the routing of your preview
environment based on the following elements: - The custom production
domains in your existing \[routes
configuration\](../../define-routes/\_index.md) - The custom domains for
preview environments attached to each of those custom production domains
\## Before you start You need: - A production environment with at least
one custom domain already set up - At least one preview (staging or
development) environment - Optional: The \[Upsun
CLI\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md) (v4.8.0+) To prevent abuse,
by default you can add custom domains to up to 5 preview environments
per project only. This limit doesn\'t include the production
environment, and you can increase it without charge. To do so, \[contact
Support\](/learn/overview/get-support.md).

### Note

If you delete a custom production domain, all of the attached custom
domains for preview environments are deleted too. You need to rebuild
the affected preview environments for the deletion to be complete.

\## Add a custom domain to a preview environment To add a custom domain
to a preview environment, follow these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

1.  To get the target for your preview environment, run the following
    command:

    `upsun environment:info edge_hostname --environment ENVIRONMENT_NAME`

2.  [Configure your DNS
    provider](/domains/steps.html#2-configure-your-dns-provider). In
    particular, make sure your DNS record points to the target of your
    preview environment.

### Note

Using the target of your production environment to configure your DNS
provider is technically possible, but Upsun recommends using the target
of your preview environment as a best practice.

1.  Run a command similar to the following:

    `upsun domain:add staging.example.com --environment STAGING_ENVIRONMENT_ID --attach PRODUCTION_CUSTOM_DOMAIN_TO_ATTACH`

<!-- -->

1.  Get the target for your preview environment. To do so, navigate to
    your preview environment and click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    Settings**. Select the **Domains** tab. In the **Configure your
    domain** section, copy the content of the **CNAME record** field.
    Save it for later use at step 7.

2.  Click **Add domain**.

3.  Name the custom domain for your preview environment.

4.  Attach the custom domain for your preview environment to the desired
    production custom domain.

5.  Click **Add**.

6.  Click **Okay**.

7.  [Configure your DNS
    provider](/domains/steps.html#2-configure-your-dns-provider). In
    particular, make sure your DNS record points to the target of your
    preview environment.

### Note

Using the target of your production environment to configure your DNS
provider is technically possible, but Upsun recommends using the target
of your preview environment as a best practice.

### Note

You can't update a custom domain when it's used on a preview
environment. You can only delete it and create a new one as a
replacement.

\### Example You\'ve added the \`mysite.com\` custom domain to your
production environment. You now want to add the \`mydev.com\` custom
domain to a preview environment called \`Dev\`. To do so, follow these
steps:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following command:

`upsun domain:add mydev.com --environment Dev --attach mysite.com`

1.  Get the target for `Dev`. To do so, navigate to `Dev` and click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    Settings**. Select the **Domains** tab. In the **Configure your
    domain** section, copy the content of the **CNAME record** field.
    Save it for later use at step 7.

2.  Click **Add domain**.

3.  Enter `mydev.com` as a name for the custom domain you want to add to
    `Dev`.

4.  Select `mysite.com` as the production custom domain you want to
    attach `mydev.com` to.

5.  Click **Add**.

6.  Click **Okay**.

7.  [Configure your DNS
    provider](/domains/steps.html#2-configure-your-dns-provider). In
    particular, make sure your DNS record points to `Dev`'s target.

In the above example, the \`Dev\` environment needs to exist for you to
add the \`mydev.com\` custom domain successfully. If the \`Dev\`
environment is later removed, the \`mydev.com\` custom domain is removed
too. \## List the custom domains of a preview environment

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run a command similar to the following:

`upsun domain:list --environment STAGING_ENVIRONMENT_ID`

1.  Navigate to your preview environment and click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    Settings**.
2.  Select the **Domains** tab. All the custom domains for your preview
    environment are displayed.

\## Get a specific custom domain used on a preview environment

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run a command similar to the following:

`upsun domain:get staging.example.com --environment STAGING_ENVIRONMENT_ID`

1.  Navigate to your preview environment and click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+U2V0dGluZ3M8L3RpdGxlPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTAuNTI4OSAyMS45NDE2QzkuODYwNjYgMjEuODU4MiA5LjM1OTUgMjEuMzU3NiA5LjE5MjQ1IDIwLjY5MDNMOS4wMjUzOSAxOS42ODkyQzguODU4MzQgMTkuNjA1OCA4Ljc3NDgyIDE5LjYwNTggOC42MDc3NiAxOS41MjI0TDcuOTM5NTUgMjAuMDIyOUM3LjQzODM5IDIwLjQ0IDYuNjg2NjUgMjAuNDQgNi4xMDE5NiAyMC4wMjI5QzYuMTAxOTYgMjAuMDIyOSA0LjA5NzMyIDE4LjEwNDIgNC4wMTM3OSAxNy45Mzc0QzMuNTEyNjMgMTcuMzUzNSAzLjUxMjYzIDE2LjYwMjcgMy45MzAyNyAxNi4wMTg3TDQuNTE0OTUgMTUuMzUxNEM0LjQzMTQzIDE1LjE4NDUgNC40MzE0MyAxNS4xMDExIDQuMzQ3OSAxNC45MzQzTDMuNDI5MTEgMTQuNzY3NEMyLjc2MDg5IDE0LjY4NCAyLjI1OTczIDE0LjE4MzUgMi4wOTI2OCAxMy40MzI3QzIuMDA5MTUgMTMuMTgyNCAyLjA5MjY4IDEwLjQyOTYgMi4wOTI2OCAxMC40Mjk2QzIuMTc2MjEgOS43NjIyMiAyLjY3NzM3IDkuMjYxNyAzLjM0NTU4IDkuMDk0ODZMNC4zNDc5IDguOTI4MDJDNC40MzE0MyA4Ljg0NDYgNC40MzE0MyA4Ljc2MTE4IDQuNTE0OTUgOC41OTQzNEw0LjAxMzc5IDcuOTI2OTdDMy41OTYxNiA3LjQyNjQ1IDMuNTk2MTYgNi42NzU2NyA0LjAxMzc5IDYuMDkxNzNDNC4wMTM3OSA2LjA5MTczIDUuOTM0OTEgNC4wODk2NCA2LjEwMTk2IDQuMDA2MjJDNi42ODY2NSAzLjUwNTcgNy40MzgzOSAzLjUwNTcgOC4wMjMwNyAzLjkyMjhMOC42OTEyOSA0LjUwNjc1QzguODU4MzQgNC40MjMzMyA4Ljk0MTg3IDQuNDIzMzMgOS4xMDg5MiA0LjMzOTkxTDkuMjc1OTcgMy40MjIyOEM5LjM1OTUgMi43NTQ5MiA5Ljg2MDY2IDIuMjU0NCAxMC42MTI0IDIuMDg3NTZDMTAuODYzIDIuMDA0MTQgMTMuMjg1MyAyLjAwNDE0IDEzLjUzNTggMi4wODc1NkgxMy42MTk0QzE0LjI4NzYgMi4xNzA5OCAxNC43ODg3IDIuNjcxNSAxNC45NTU4IDMuMzM4ODZMMTUuMTIyOCA0LjMzOTkxQzE1LjIwNjQgNC40MjMzMyAxNS4yODk5IDQuNTA2NzUgMTUuNDU3IDQuNTA2NzVMMTYuMTI1MiA0LjAwNjIyQzE2LjYyNjMgMy41ODkxMiAxNy4zNzgxIDMuNTg5MTIgMTcuOTYyOCA0LjAwNjIyQzE3Ljk2MjggNC4wMDYyMiAxOS45Njc0IDUuOTI0ODkgMjAuMDUwOSA2LjA5MTczQzIwLjU1MjEgNi42NzU2NyAyMC41NTIxIDcuNDI2NDUgMjAuMTM0NCA4LjAxMDRMMTkuNjMzMyA4LjY3Nzc2QzE5LjcxNjggOC44NDQ2IDE5LjcxNjggOS4wMTE0NCAxOS44MDAzIDkuMDk0ODZMMjAuNzE5MSA5LjI2MTdDMjEuMzg3MyA5LjM0NTEyIDIxLjk3MiA5LjkyOTA2IDIyLjA1NTYgMTAuNTk2NFYxMy41OTk2QzIxLjk3MiAxNC4yNjY5IDIxLjQ3MDkgMTQuNzY3NCAyMC44MDI3IDE0LjkzNDNMMTkuODAwMyAxNS4xMDExQzE5LjcxNjggMTUuMjY4IDE5LjcxNjggMTUuMzUxNCAxOS42MzMzIDE1LjUxODJMMjAuMjE4IDE2LjI2OUMyMC42MzU2IDE2Ljc2OTUgMjAuNjM1NiAxNy41MjAzIDIwLjIxOCAxOC4xMDQyTDE4LjA0NjMgMjAuMjczMkMxNy40NjE2IDIwLjY5MDMgMTYuNzA5OSAyMC42OTAzIDE2LjIwODcgMjAuMjczMkwxNS4zNzM0IDE5LjYwNThDMTUuMjA2NCAxOS42ODkyIDE1LjEyMjggMTkuNjg5MiAxNC45NTU4IDE5Ljc3MjZMMTQuNzg4NyAyMC42OTAzQzE0LjcwNTIgMjEuMzU3NiAxNC4xMjA1IDIxLjk0MTYgMTMuNDUyMyAyMi4wMjVIMTAuNTI4OVYyMS45NDE2Wk0xMS41MzEyIDIwLjM1NjZDMTEuODY1MyAyMC4zNTY2IDEyLjE5OTQgMjAuMzU2NiAxMi40NSAyMC4zNTY2QzEyLjg2NzYgMjAuMzU2NiAxMy4yMDE3IDIwLjAyMjkgMTMuMjg1MyAxOS42MDU4TDEzLjM2ODggMTguOTM4NEMxMy4zNjg4IDE4LjY4ODIgMTMuNjE5NCAxOC40Mzc5IDEzLjg2OTkgMTguMjcxMUwxNS4xMjI4IDE3Ljc3MDZDMTUuMzczNCAxNy42ODcxIDE1LjcwNzUgMTcuNjg3MSAxNS45NTgxIDE3Ljg1NEwxNi41NDI4IDE4LjI3MTFDMTYuODc2OSAxOC41MjEzIDE3LjM3ODEgMTguNTIxMyAxNy42Mjg2IDE4LjE4NzdDMTcuNzk1NyAxOC4wMjA4IDE4LjA0NjMgMTcuNzcwNiAxOC4yOTY5IDE3LjUyMDNDMTguNTQ3NCAxNy4xODY2IDE4LjYzMSAxNi43Njk1IDE4LjM4MDQgMTYuNDM1OEwxNy44NzkyIDE2LjAxODdDMTcuNzEyMiAxNS43Njg1IDE3LjYyODYgMTUuNDM0OCAxNy43OTU3IDE1LjE4NDVMMTguMjk2OSAxNC4wMTY3QzE4LjM4MDQgMTMuNzY2NCAxOC42MzEgMTMuNTk5NiAxOC45NjUxIDEzLjUxNjFMMTkuNjMzMyAxMy40MzI3QzIwLjA1MDkgMTMuMzQ5MyAyMC4zODUgMTMuMDE1NiAyMC4zODUgMTIuNTk4NUMyMC4zODUgMTIuMjY0OCAyMC4zODUgMTEuOTMxMSAyMC4zODUgMTEuNjgwOUMyMC4zODUgMTEuMjYzOCAyMC4wNTA5IDEwLjkzMDEgMTkuNjMzMyAxMC44NDY3TDE4Ljk2NTEgMTAuNzYzM0MxOC43MTQ1IDEwLjc2MzMgMTguNDYzOSAxMC41MTMgMTguMjk2OSAxMC4yNjI3TDE3Ljc5NTcgOS4wMTE0NEMxNy43MTIyIDguNzYxMTggMTcuNzEyMiA4LjQyNzUgMTcuODc5MiA4LjE3NzI0TDE4LjI5NjkgNy41OTMyOUMxOC41NDc0IDcuMjU5NjEgMTguNTQ3NCA2Ljg0MjUxIDE4LjIxMzMgNi41MDg4M0MxOC4wNDYzIDYuMzQxOTkgMTcuNzk1NyA2LjA5MTczIDE3LjU0NTEgNS44NDE0N0MxNy4yMTEgNS41MDc3OSAxNi43OTM0IDUuNTA3NzkgMTYuNDU5MyA1Ljc1ODA1TDE2LjA0MTYgNi4xNzUxNUMxNS43OTExIDYuMzQxOTkgMTUuNDU3IDYuNDI1NDEgMTUuMjA2NCA2LjI1ODU3TDE0LjAzNyA1Ljc1ODA1QzEzLjc4NjQgNS42NzQ2MyAxMy42MTk0IDUuNDI0MzcgMTMuNTM1OCA1LjA5MDY5TDEzLjM2ODggNC41MDY3NUMxMy4yODUzIDQuMDg5NjQgMTIuOTUxMSAzLjc1NTk2IDEyLjUzMzUgMy43NTU5NkMxMi4xOTk0IDMuNzU1OTYgMTEuODY1MyAzLjc1NTk2IDExLjYxNDcgMy43NTU5NkMxMS4xOTcxIDMuNzU1OTYgMTAuODYzIDQuMDg5NjQgMTAuNzc5NSA0LjUwNjc1TDEwLjY5NTkgNS4xNzQxMUMxMC42OTU5IDUuNDI0MzcgMTAuNDQ1MyA1LjY3NDYzIDEwLjE5NDggNS44NDE0N0w5LjAyNTM5IDYuMjU4NTdDOC42OTEyOSA2LjQyNTQxIDguNDQwNzEgNi4zNDE5OSA4LjE5MDEzIDYuMTc1MTVMNy42MDU0NCA1Ljc1ODA1QzcuMjcxMzMgNS41MDc3OSA2Ljc3MDE3IDUuNTA3NzkgNi41MTk1OSA1Ljg0MTQ3QzYuMjY5MDEgNi4wMDgzMSA2LjEwMTk2IDYuMjU4NTcgNS44NTEzOCA2LjQyNTQxQzUuNjAwOCA2Ljc1OTA5IDUuNTE3MjcgNy4xNzYxOSA1Ljg1MTM4IDcuNTA5ODdMNi4xODU0OSA4LjA5MzgyQzYuMzUyNTQgOC4zNDQwOCA2LjQzNjA3IDguNjc3NzYgNi4yNjkwMSA4LjkyODAyTDUuNzY3ODUgMTAuMDk1OUM1LjY4NDMzIDEwLjM0NjIgNS40MzM3NSAxMC41MTMgNS4wOTk2NCAxMC41OTY0TDQuNDMxNDMgMTAuNjc5OEM0LjAxMzc5IDEwLjc2MzMgMy42Nzk2OSAxMS4wOTY5IDMuNjc5NjkgMTEuNTE0QzMuNjc5NjkgMTEuODQ3NyAzLjY3OTY5IDEyLjE4MTQgMy42Nzk2OSAxMi40MzE3QzMuNjc5NjkgMTIuODQ4OCA0LjAxMzc5IDEzLjE4MjUgNC40MzE0MyAxMy4yNjU5TDUuMDk5NjQgMTMuMzQ5M0M1LjM1MDIyIDEzLjM0OTMgNS42MDA4IDEzLjU5OTYgNS43Njc4NSAxMy44NDk4TDYuMjY5MDEgMTUuMTAxMUM2LjM1MjU0IDE1LjM1MTQgNi4zNTI1NCAxNS42ODUxIDYuMTg1NDkgMTUuOTM1M0w1Ljc2Nzg1IDE2LjUxOTNDNS41MTcyNyAxNi44NTI5IDUuNTE3MjcgMTcuMzUzNSA1Ljg1MTM4IDE3LjYwMzdDNi4wMTg0MyAxNy43NzA2IDYuMjY5MDEgMTguMDIwOCA2LjUxOTU5IDE4LjI3MTFDNi44NTM3IDE4LjUyMTMgNy4yNzEzMyAxOC42MDQ4IDcuNjA1NDQgMTguMzU0NUw4LjAyMzA3IDE3Ljg1NEM4LjI3MzY1IDE3LjY4NzEgOC42MDc3NiAxNy42MDM3IDguODU4MzQgMTcuNzcwNkwxMC4wMjc3IDE4LjI3MTFDMTAuMjc4MyAxOC4zNTQ1IDEwLjQ0NTMgMTguNjA0OCAxMC41Mjg5IDE4LjkzODRMMTAuNjEyNCAxOS42MDU4QzEwLjc3OTUgMjAuMDIyOSAxMS4xMTM2IDIwLjM1NjYgMTEuNTMxMiAyMC4zNTY2Wk0xOC43OTggNi45MjU5M0MxOC43OTggNi45MjU5MyAxOC43OTggNy4wMDkzNSAxOC43OTggNi45MjU5M1Y2LjkyNTkzWiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyLjAzMjQgMTcuMDE5OEM5LjI3NTk3IDE3LjAxOTggNy4wMjA3NSAxNC43Njc1IDcuMDIwNzUgMTIuMDE0NkM3LjAyMDc1IDkuMjYxNzIgOS4yNzU5NyA3LjAwOTM3IDEyLjAzMjQgNy4wMDkzN0MxNC43ODg3IDcuMDA5MzcgMTcuMDQ0IDkuMjYxNzIgMTcuMDQ0IDEyLjAxNDZDMTcuMDQ0IDE0Ljc2NzUgMTQuNzg4NyAxNy4wMTk4IDEyLjAzMjQgMTcuMDE5OFpNMTIuMDMyNCA4LjY3Nzc3QzEwLjE5NDggOC42Nzc3NyA4LjY5MTI5IDEwLjE3OTMgOC42OTEyOSAxMi4wMTQ2QzguNjkxMjkgMTMuODQ5OCAxMC4xOTQ4IDE1LjM1MTQgMTIuMDMyNCAxNS4zNTE0QzEzLjg2OTkgMTUuMzUxNCAxNS4zNzM0IDEzLjg0OTggMTUuMzczNCAxMi4wMTQ2QzE1LjM3MzQgMTAuMTc5MyAxMy44Njk5IDguNjc3NzcgMTIuMDMyNCA4LjY3Nzc3WiIgLz48L3N2Zz4=)
    Settings**.
2.  Select the **Domains** tab. All the custom domains for the selected
    environment are displayed.
3.  To see which actions you can perform on a displayed custom domain,
    click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDYuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDYuNSAxMy41IDUuODI4NDMgMTMuNSA1QzEzLjUgNC4xNzE1NyAxMi44Mjg0IDMuNSAxMiAzLjVDMTEuMTcxNiAzLjUgMTAuNSA0LjE3MTU3IDEwLjUgNUMxMC41IDUuODI4NDMgMTEuMTcxNiA2LjUgMTIgNi41WiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTIgMTMuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTMuNSAxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTJDMTMuNSAxMS4xNzE2IDEyLjgyODQgMTAuNSAxMiAxMC41QzExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMC41IDExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMkMxMC41IDEyLjgyODQgMTEuMTcxNiAxMy41IDEyIDEzLjVaIiAvPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    More** next to it.

\## Remove a custom domain from a preview environment

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run a command similar to the following:

`upsun domain:delete staging.example.com --environment STAGING_ENVIRONMENT_ID`

1.  Navigate to your preview environment and click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    Settings**.
2.  Select the **Domains** tab. All the custom domains for the selected
    environment are displayed.
3.  Click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    More** on the custom domain you want to delete.
4.  Click **Delete**.
5.  Click **Yes, delete**.

#Set up your Cloudflare CDN You can \[use a CDN\](./\_index.md) to
deliver your site\'s content to users more quickly. \## Before you begin
You need: - An up-and-running Upsun project - A
\[Cloudflare\](https://www.cloudflare.com/) CDN subscription \## 1.
Avoid double-caching To avoid stale content that can\'t be cleared,
avoid using Cloudflare with \[HTTP caching\](/define-routes/cache.md).
For routes where Cloudflare is used, disable HTTP caching using the
following configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} https://{default}/: type:
upstream \... cache: enabled: false \`\`\` \## 2. Set up your Cloudflare
CDN To properly configure your Cloudflare CDN, see the Cloudflare
official documentation on \[how to get
started\](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cache/get-started/). Then
set up a \[custom domain\](../steps/\_index.md). To get the \[DNS
challenge to succeed\](../troubleshoot.md#ownership-verification), have
your CDN point to your \[project\'s target
URL\](../../domains/steps/\_index.md#1-get-the-target-for-your-project).
\## 3. Handle apex domains To start routing client traffic through
Cloudflare, you need to \[create \`CNAME\` records for your domain
names\](../../domains/steps/dns.md) through your DNS provider. But
\`CNAME\` records can\'t point to apex domains. As a workaround,
Cloudflare offers \[\`HTTPS\`
records\](https://developers.cloudflare.com/dns/manage-dns-records/reference/dns-record-types/#svcb-and-https)
and \[\`CNAME\`
flattening\](https://developers.cloudflare.com/dns/additional-options/cname-flattening/).
\## 4. Mitigate security risks Like all networks exposed to the
internet, your origin server may become the target of security attacks.
The best way to protect your site from threats like on-path attacks,
spoofing attacks, or credential stuffing, is to \[configure mutual TLS
(mTLS)\](https://community.platform.sh/t/configure-mutual-tls-with-cloudflare-and-platform-sh/761).
\[mTLS\](https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/access-management/what-is-mutual-tls/)
not only has both parties in a connection authenticate each other
through the TLS protocol. It also ensures that requests can\'t be sent
directly to the origin server (Upsun). Instead, requests must transit
through Cloudflare first.

### Note

mTLS is only compatible with environments where you have attached
domains you own, meaning:

-   Your production environment
-   Each preview environment where you have attached a custom domain

Therefore, mTLS is **not** compatible with preview environments created
by a source code integration.

If you can\'t use mTLS, you can still take the following measures to
protect your site from on-path attacks: 1. \[Enable full strict SSL/TLS
encryption\](https://developers.cloudflare.com/ssl/origin-configuration/ssl-modes/full-strict/).
Any communication between a client and Cloudflare or between Cloudflare
and your Upsun server is then encrypted through HTTPS. In addition,
Cloudflare checks that your Upsun server\'s \[TLS
certificate\](/glossary.md#transport-layer-security-tls) was issued by a
trusted certificate authority. This confirms the client is truly
communicating with your Upsun server. 2. \[Enable HTTP strict transport
security
(HSTS)\](https://developers.cloudflare.com/ssl/edge-certificates/additional-options/http-strict-transport-security/).
This ensures that your HTTPS connections can\'t be downgraded to HTTP.
\# Get support Find out how to get help if you're experiencing issues
with Upsun. \## Create a support ticket If you\'re experiencing issues
related to the proper functioning of the Upsun infrastructure,
application container software, or build processes; have found possible
bugs; or have general questions, open a support ticket: 1. \[Open the
Console\](https://console.upsun.com/) 2. Click the \*\*Help\*\* dropdown
in the upper right-hand corner. 3. Select \*\*Support\*\* from the
options in the dropdown. 4. Click \*\*+ New ticket\*\*. 5. Fill in the
ticket fields and click \*\*Submit\*\*. Or use these shortcuts to
\[access all support
tickets\](https://console.upsun.com/-/users/\~/tickets) or \[open a new
ticket\](https://console.upsun.com/-/users/\~/tickets/open). Once you
submit a ticket, you see it in a list of all tickets created, for all
projects you have access to, within your organization. Note that once
you submit the ticket, you can\'t modify or delete the submission. If
you have any additional information, you can select the submitted ticket
and write a message. \## Community To talk about app development or
framework-related questions, join other customers and engineers in the
\[Discord\](https://discord.gg/PkMc2pVCDV). Also, the \[Upsun Community
forum\](https://community.platform.sh/) has how-to guides with
suggestions on how to get the most out of Upsun. Join us on Discord Ask
a question on the forum

\## Contact Sales If you have questions about pricing or need help
figuring out if Upsun is the right solution for your team, get in touch
with \[Sales\](https://upsun.com/register/). \## Delete your account To
permanently delete your Upsun account, follow these steps:

### Warning

Deleting your Upsun account automatically deletes your linked
Platform.sh account, as well as any linked Ibexa Cloud, Pimcore PaaS, or
Shopware PaaS accounts you may hold.

1\. \[Open the Console\](https://console.upsun.com/). 2. Open the user
menu (your name or profile picture) and select \*\*My Profile\*\*. 3.
Click \*\*Delete account\*\*. 4. Check that the pre-filled information
is correct and click \*\*Submit\*\*. 5. Read the consequences of account
deletion and click \*\*Submit request\*\* to confirm. Your request is
now submitted and will be handled by Support shortly. #Going Live -
Troubleshooting If your site doesn't resolve after you've made DNS
changes, check potential solutions to common issues. \## Verify DNS On
the command line using macOS, Linux, or the Windows Subsystem for Linux,
run the following command: \`\`\`bash host www.YOUR_DOMAIN \`\`\` If
your domain is \`example.com\`, the response should be something like
the following: \`\`\`text www.example.com is an alias for
main-abcd123.abcdefgh1234567.eu.platformsh.site
main-abcd123.abcdefgh1234567.eu.platformsh.site has address 192.0.2.1
\`\`\` If it isn\'t, try the following steps: - Your DNS server might
not be correctly configured or the old DNS records are still cached. Try
removing your local DNS cache. - Set your computer\'s DNS server to any
Public DNS resolver (like
\[CloudFlare\](https://developers.cloudflare.com/1.1.1.1/) or
\[Google\](https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns/docs/using))
to see if the issue is with the DNS server you are using. - Run \`ping
www.YOUR_DOMAIN\`. If the result is different from what you got from
running \`host www.YOUR_DOMAIN\`, you might need to remove your test
settings. \## Verify SSL/TLS encryption To find out where your domain is
pointing to, you can use \[the certificate checker
tool\](https://certcheck.pltfrm.sh/). This tool provides guidance on
certificates, including when you use a \[CDN\](./cdn/\_index.md). Check
both the apex and the \`www\` domains to ensure they both point to your
project. For further investigations, run the following command in a
shell: \`\`\`bash curl -I -v https://www.YOUR_DOMAIN \`\`\` Look for
error messages. Often the problem is caused by a mismatch between the
certificate and the domain name or an expired \[custom
certificate\](steps/tls.md). \### Error provisioning certificates When a
Let\'s Encrypt certificate fails to provision after the build hook has
completed, you get output similar to the following: \`\`\`bash
Provisioning certificates Validating 2 new domains E: Error validating
domains: urn:ietf:params:acme:error:rejectedIdentifier :: The server
will not issue certificates for the identifier :: NewOrder request did
not include a SAN short enough to fit in CN Unable to validate domains
domain
a-new-and-really-awesome-feature-abc1234-defghijk56789.eu3.platformsh.site,
www.domain
a-new-and-really-awesome-feature-abc1234-defghijk56789.eu3.platformsh.site,
will retry in the background. (Next refresh will be at 2023-04-28
02:22:50.639301+00:00.) E: Error: TLS Certificate provisioning failed
\`\`\` The renewal may fail because of the 64-character limit Let\'s
Encrypt places on URLs. If you have a branch with a long name, the
environment URL is over this limit and the certificate is rejected. To
solve this, shorten your branch name so it doesn\'t exceed 20
characters. Generated URLs for environments have the following pattern:
\`\`\`bash ENVIRONMENT-PROJECT_ID.REGION.platformsh.site \`\`\` If you
have a \[default domain\](../define-routes/\_index.md#default) set up,
the generated URL has the following pattern: \`\`\`bash
YOUR_DOMAIN.ENVIRONMENT-PROJECT_ID.REGION.platformsh.site \`\`\` The
generated URLs consist of: - \`YOUR_DOMAIN\` = the amount of characters
your domain has - \`ENVIRONMENT\` = \`BRANCH_NAME\` + 7 character hash -
\`PROJECT_ID\` = 13 characters - \`REGION\` = 2 to 4 characters,
depending on the region - \`platformsh.site\` = 15 characters - extra
characters like \`.\` and \`-\` = 4 to 5 characters, depending on if you
have a default domain This leaves you with 21 to 23 characters for your
branch name (\`BRANCH_NAME\`) without exceeding the 64-character limit,
depending on the region. To ensure your renewals succeed, keep your
branch names under 20 characters. \### Ownership verification To provide
a valid TLS-certificate, the certificate issuer checks that the
requester is entitled to receive the requested certificate. This check
is known as the \_Challenge\_ step. The certificate request is generated
based on your \[routes definition\](../define-routes/\_index.md). If you
want your site to be available with \`example.com\` and its
\`www.example.com\` subdomain, make sure both are defined in your
routes. To pass this verification, there are requirements you need to
meet.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Without a CDN
-   Using a CDN

Upsun checks that all the routes you defined are pointing to your
project. For the challenge to complete, domains and subdomains must
point directly to your Upsun project.

Otherwise, you get an error similar to:

` E: Error validating domain www.example.com: Couldn't complete challenge [HTTP01: pending | DNS01: pending | TLSALPN01: pending] Unable to validate domains www.example.com, will retry in the background.`

When you use a CDN, to ensure the challenge succeeds, check that:

-   Your domains and subdomains point to your CDN
-   The [`_acme-challenge.`
    subdomain](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8555#section-8.4), as
    in `_acme-challenge.example.com`, points to your CDN
-   The [`/.well-known/`
    route](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8555#section-8.3), as in
    `https://www.example.com/.well-known/`, is accessible with no
    redirects

If you don't follow those requirements, you get an error message similar
to:

` W: Failed to verify the challenge at the gateway for the domain 'www.example.com' E: Error validating domain www.example.com: Couldn't complete challenge [HTTP01: The client lacks sufficient authorization]`

For more information, see how to setup your CDN. For more details
regarding the challenge step, consult your certificate issuer's
documentation. A common issuer is Let's Encrypt.

Make sure that the \[apex domain\](/glossary.md#apex-domain) and its
\`www\` subdomain are both pointing where needed. Note that it can take
up to 72 hours for DNS changes to be effective. For more information,
see how to \[set up a custom domain\](../domains/steps/\_index.md). If
the changes take longer than expected,
\[redeploy\](../development/troubleshoot.md#force-a-redeploy) the
impacted environment. Also make sure that no conflicting DNS records
exist for your domain. For example, a conflicting AAAA (IPv6) DNS record
can result in a \`\[HTTP01: The client lacks sufficient
authorization\]\` error. If the certificate generation issue persists,
check if an outage is ongoing with your certificate issuer (the most
common one is \[Let\'s Encrypt\](https://letsencrypt.status.io/)) and
with your CDN provider if you have one. If not, \[contact
Support\](/learn/overview/get-support.md). \### Check your routes
configuration Certificates are generated based on your \[routes
configuration\](../define-routes/\_index.md). When a certificate is
renewed, the renewal bot checks that all of the defined routes can be
accessed. If at least one of the routes defined in your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file can\'t be accessed, the renewal fails and
the following error is displayed: \`\`\` Provisioning certificates
Validating 2 new domains W: Failed to verify the challenge at the
gateway for the domain \'www.example.com\' E: Error validating domain
www.example.com: Couldn\'t complete challenge \[HTTP01: There was a
problem with a DNS query during identifier validation\] Unable to
validate domains www.example.com, will retry in the background. (Next
refresh will be at 2023-07-04 17:43:10.259891+00:00.) Certificates -
certificate 61bc4c8: expiring on 2023-09-02 01:11:12+00:00, covering
sdgs.un.org E: Error: TLS Certificate provisioning failed \`\`\` For
example, if you add \`example.com\` and \`www.example.com\` to your
routes configuration but the \`www\` subdomain doesn\'t point to your
project through \[a \`CNAME\` record\](./steps/dns.md#cname-records),
the certificate renewal fails. For the renewal to succeed, add the
missing \`CNAME\` record to your DNS or remove \`www.example.com\` (and
any other \`www\` route) from your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. \##
Verify your application Check your app\'s logs and look for anomalies.
On the command line type \`upsun logs app\` and \`upsun logs error\`.
\## Use ASCII for the domain Upsun expects an ASCII representation of
your domain. To use an internationalized domain name (IDN), convert it
to ASCII. Use a tool such as the \[conversion tool provided by
Verisign\](https://www.verisign.com/en_US/channel-resources/domain-registry-products/idn/idn-conversion-tool/index.xhtml).
\## Something still wrong? For more general information, see how to
\[troubleshoot development\](/development/troubleshoot). If your website
is still not working as expected, \[contact
support\](/learn/overview/get-support.md). #Multi-Factor Authentication
(MFA) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) enhances security by protecting
both your organization and every user account that interacts with it
through SSH or the Upsun API. When MFA is enforced within an
organization, every project contributor \*\*must\*\* enable MFA on their
user account so they can run Git commands, SSH into an environment, or
trigger actions through the Upsun API. \## Enable MFA on your user
account To access an organization that enforces MFA or any of its
projects, you \*\*must\*\* enable MFA on your user account. Failure to
do so results in forbidden access to the organization from the Console
or API, and an \[error
message\](/development/ssh/troubleshoot-ssh.md#mfa-related-error-message)
when trying to SSH into its environments. To enable MFA on your user
account, follow these steps: 1. In the Console, open the user menu (your
name or profile picture). 2. Click \*\*My profile\*\* 3. Click
\*\*Security\*\*. 4. Click \*\*Set up application\*\*. 5. Follow the
instructions for the chosen authentication app. 6. Click \*\*Verify &
save\*\*. 7. Refresh your SSH credentials by running \`upsun login -f\`
in the CLI. \## Enforce MFA within your organization

### Feature availability and permissions

This feature is available as part of the Standard User Management
add-on. To add it to your organization, administer your organization's
billing.

Only **organization owners** and **admin users** can enable MFA within
an organization. However, even if you have the required permissions, you
**must** [enable MFA on your user
account](#enable-mfa-on-your-user-account) prior to enforcing it within
the whole organization.

To enable MFA within your organization, follow these steps: 1. In the
Console, open the user menu (your name or profile picture). 2. Click
\*\*Settings\*\*. 3. Click \*\*Security\*\*. 4. In the \*\*MFA
required\*\* area, set the \*\*Enable\*\* toggle on.

### Note

Under **User security settings**, you can view which users in your
organization have [activated MFA for their user
accounts](#enable-mfa-on-your-user-account).

\### Send email reminders You can send email reminders to users who
haven\'t enabled MFA on their user account yet. To do so, follow these
steps: 1. In the Console, open the user menu (your name or profile
picture). 2. Click \*\*Settings\*\*. 3. Click \*\*Security\*\*. 4. In
the \*\*User security settings\*\* area, find the user you want to send
a reminder to. 5. Click
\*\*![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
More\*\* next to that user. 6. Select \*\*Remind\*\*. An email is sent
to the user with instructions on how to enable MFA on their user
account.

### Note

You can send reminders to multiple users at once. To do so, in the
**User security settings** user list, select the desired users by
checking the boxes in front of their names. Click **Remind** at the top
of the list to trigger the reminder emails.

#Single-runtime image See all of the options for controlling your apps
and how they're built and deployed on Upsun. Configuration is all done
in a \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file, located at the root of your Git
repository. See a \[comprehensive
example\](../\_index.md#comprehensive-example) of a configuration in a
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. \## Primary application properties All
application configuration takes place in a \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file,
with each application configured under a unique key beneath the
top-level \`applications\` key. For example, it is possible to deploy
two application containers - one JavaScript and the other Python - for
the frontend and backend components of a deployed site. In this case,
the unified \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file would look like: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: frontend: type: \'nodejs:22\' \# Additional frontend
configuration backend: type: \'python:3.9\' \# Additional backend
configuration \`\`\` The following table presents all properties
available at the level just below the unique application name
(\`frontend\` and \`backend\` above). The column \_Set in instance?\_
defines whether the given property can be overridden within a \`web\` or
\`workers\` instance. To override any part of a property, you have to
provide the entire property. \| Name \| Type \| Required \| Set in
instance? \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`type\` \| A \[type\](#types) \| Yes \| No \| The base image to use
with a specific app language. Format: \`runtime:version\`. \| \|
\`relationships\` \| A dictionary of \[relationships\](#relationships)
\| \| Yes \| Connections to other services and apps. \| \| \`mounts\` \|
A dictionary of \[mounts\](#mounts) \| \| Yes \| Directories that are
writable even after the app is built. Allocated disk for mounts is
defined with a separate resource configuration call using \`upsun
resources:set\`. \| \| \`web\` \| A \[web instance\](#web) \| \| N/A \|
How the web application is served. \| \| \`workers\` \| A \[worker
instance\](#workers) \| \| N/A \| Alternate copies of the application to
run as background processes. \| \| \`timezone\` \| \`string\` \| \| No
\| The timezone for crons to run. Format: a \[TZ database
name\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones).
Defaults to \`UTC\`, which is the timezone used for all logs no matter
the value here. See also \[app runtime timezones\](../timezone.md) \| \|
\`access\` \| An \[access dictionary\](#access) \| \| Yes \| Access
control for roles accessing app environments. \| \| \`variables\` \| A
\[variables dictionary\](#variables) \| \| Yes \| Variables to control
the environment. \| \| \`firewall\` \| A \[firewall
dictionary\](#firewall) \| \| Yes \| Outbound firewall rules for the
application. \| \| \`build\` \| A \[build dictionary\](#build) \| \| No
\| What happens when the app is built. \| \| \`dependencies\` \| A
\[dependencies dictionary\](#dependencies) \| \| No \| What global
dependencies to install before the \`build\` hook is run. \| \|
\`hooks\` \| A \[hooks dictionary\](#hooks) \| \| No \| What commands
run at different stages in the build and deploy process. \| \| \`crons\`
\| A \[cron dictionary\](#crons) \| \| No \| Scheduled tasks for the
app. \| \| \`source\` \| A \[source dictionary\](#source) \| \| No \|
Information on the app\'s source code and operations that can be run on
it. \| \| \`runtime\` \| A \[runtime dictionary\](#runtime) \| \| No \|
Customizations to your PHP or Lisp runtime. \| \| \`additional_hosts\`
\| An \[additional hosts dictionary\](#additional-hosts) \| \| Yes \|
Maps of hostnames to IP addresses. \| \## Root directory Some of the
properties you can define are relative to your app\'s root directory.
The root defaults to the root of the repository. \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: frontend: type: \'nodejs:22\' \# Default behavior of
source.root source: root: \"/\" \`\`\` That is, if a custom value for
\`source.root\` is not provided in your configuration, the default
behavior is equivalent to the above. To specify another directory, for
example for a \[multi-app project\](../multi-app/\_index.md), use the
\[\`source.root\` property\](#source). \## Types

### Note

You can now use the Upsun composable image (BETA) to install runtimes
and tools in your application container. If you've reached this section
from another page, you may be interested in supported `stacks` where
`type` was referenced. See [supported Nix packages for the `stack`
key](/create-apps/app-reference/composable-image.html#supported-nix-packages)
for more information.

The \`type\` defines the base container image used to run the
application. The version is the major (\`X\`) and sometimes minor
(\`X.Y\`) version numbers, depending on the service, as in the following
table. Security and other patches are taken care of for you
automatically. Available languages and their supported versions:

**Heads up!**

The file `registry/images/tables/runtimes_supported.md` was not found.
Did you define it in `docs/data/remote-examples` to be downloaded?

\### Example configuration These are used in the format
\`runtime:version\`: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type:
\'php:8.4\' \`\`\` \### Mix of images In a \[multiple application
context\](/create-apps/multi-app/\_index.md), you can mix both
\[single-runtime
image\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md) and
\[Composable Image
(BETA)\](/create-apps/app-reference/composable-image.md) per
application. As an example configuration for a \`\`frontend\`\` and a
\`\`backend\`\` application: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: backend: type:
\'nodejs:22 frontend: stack: - \"php@8.4\": extensions: - apcu -
sodium - xsl - pdo_sqlite - \"python@3.12\" - \"python312Packages.yq\"
\# python package specific \`\`\` \## Resources Resources for
application containers are not committed to YAML files, but instead
managed over the API using either the Console or the \`upsun
resources:set\` command. For more information, see how to \[manage
resources\](/manage-resources.md). \## Relationships To allow containers
in your project to communicate with one another, you need to define
relationships between them. You can define a relationship between an app
and a service, or \[between two
apps\](/create-apps/multi-app/relationships.md). The quickest way to
define a relationship between your app and a service is to use the
service\'s default endpoint. However, some services allow you to define
multiple databases, cores, and/or permissions. In these cases, you
can\'t rely on default endpoints. Instead, you can explicitly define
multiple endpoints when setting up your relationships.

### Note

App containers don't have a default endpoint like services. To connect
your app to another app in your project, you need to explicitly define
the `http` endpoint as the endpoint to connect both apps. For more
information, see how to define relationships between your apps.

### Availability

New syntax (default and explicit endpoints) described below is supported
by most, but not all, image types
(`Relationship 'SERVICE_NAME' of application 'app' ... targets a service without a valid default endpoint configuration.`).
This syntax is currently being rolled out for all images. If you
encounter this error, use the "legacy" Upsun configuration noted at the
bottom of this section.

To define a relationship between your app and a service:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

Use the following configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: SERVICE_NAME:`

The `SERVICE_NAME` is the name of the service as defined in its
configuration. It is used as the relationship name, and associated with
a `null` value. This instructs Upsun to use the service's default
endpoint to connect your app to the service.

For example, if you define the following configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: mariadb:`

Upsun looks for a service named `mariadb` in your `.upsun/config.yaml`
file, and connects your app to it through the service's default
endpoint.

For reference, the equivalent configuration using explicit endpoints
would be the following:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: mariadb: service: mariadb endpoint: mysql`

You can define any number of relationships in this way:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: mariadb: redis: elasticsearch:`

### Tip

An even quicker way to define many relationships is to use the following
single-line configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: {SERVICE_NAME_A, SERVICE_NAME_B, SERVICE_NAME_C} services: SERVICE_NAME_A: type: mariadb:11.4 SERVICE_NAME_B: type: redis:7.2 SERVICE_NAME_C: type: elasticsearch:8.5`

Use the following configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: RELATIONSHIP_NAME: service: SERVICE_NAME endpoint: ENDPOINT_NAME`

-   `RELATIONSHIP_NAME` is the name you want to give to the
    relationship.
-   `SERVICE_NAME` is the name of the service as defined in its
    configuration.
-   `ENDPOINT_NAME` is the endpoint your app will use to connect to the
    service (refer to the service reference to know which value to use).

For example, to define a relationship named `database` that connects
your app to a service called `mariadb` through the `db1` endpoint, use
the following configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: database: # The name of the relationship. service: mariadb endpoint: db1`

For more information on how to handle multiple databases, multiple
cores, and/or different permissions with services that support such
features, see each service's dedicated page:

-   [MariaDB/MySQL](/add-services/mysql.html#multiple-databases)
    (multiple databases and permissions)
-   [PostgreSQL](/add-services/postgresql.html#multiple-databases)
    (multiple databases and permissions)
-   [Redis](/add-services/redis.html#multiple-databases) (multiple
    databases)
-   [Solr](/add-services/solr.html#solr-6-and-later) (multiple cores)
-   [Vault KMS](/add-services/vault.html#multiple-endpoints-example)
    (multiple permissions)

You can add as many relationships as you want to your app configuration,
using both default and explicit endpoints according to your needs:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: database1: service: mariadb endpoint: admin database2: service: mariadb endpoint: legacy cache: service: redis search: service: elasticsearch`

### Legacy

The following legacy syntax for specifying relationships is still
supported by Upsun:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: "<SERVICE_NAME>:<ENDPOINT_NAME>" services: SERVICE_NAME_A: type: mariadb:11.4`

For example:

`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: database: "db:mysql" services: db: type: mariadb:11.4`

Feel free to use this until the default and explicit endpoint syntax is
supported on all images.

\## Available disk space Disk for application containers are not
committed to YAML files, but instead managed over the API using either
the Console or the \`upsun resources:set\` command. For more
information, see how to \[manage resources\](/manage-resources.md). \###
Downsize a disk You can decrease the size of an existing disk for an
app. If you do so, be aware that: - Backups from before the downsize are
incompatible and can no longer be used. You need to \[create new
backups\](/environments/backup). - The downsize fails if there's more
data on the disk than the desired size. \## Mounts After your app is
built, its file system is read-only. To make changes to your app\'s
code, you need to use Git. For enhanced flexibility, Upsun allows you to
define and use writable directories called \"mounts\". Mounts give you
write access to files generated by your app (such as cache and log
files) and uploaded files without going through Git. When you define a
mount, you are mounting an external directory to your app container,
much like you would plug a hard drive into your computer to transfer
data.

### Note

-   Mounts aren't available during the build
-   When you back up an environment, the mounts on that environment are
    backed up too

\### Define a mount To define a mount, use the following configuration:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: nodejs:22
mounts: \'MOUNT_PATH\': source: MOUNT_TYPE source_path:
SOURCE_PATH_LOCATION \`\`\` MOUNT_PATH is the path to your mount
\*\*within the app container\*\* (relative to the app\'s root). If you
already have a directory with that name, you get a warning that it
isn\'t accessible after the build. See how to \[troubleshoot the
warning\](../troubleshoot-mounts.md#overlapping-folders). \| Name \|
Type \| Required \| Description \| \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| \`source\` \| \`storage\`, \`instance\`,
\`tmp\` (also called \`temporary\`), or \`service\` \| Yes \| Specifies
the type of the mount:\
\
- By design, \`storage\` mounts can be shared between instances of the
same app. You can also configure them so they are \[shared between
different apps\](#share-a-mount-between-several-apps).\
\
-\`instance\` mounts are local mounts. Unique to your app, they are
useful to store files that remain local to the app instance, such as
application logs.\
\
- \`tmp\` (or \`temporary\`) mounts are local ephemeral mounts, where an
external directory is mounted to the \`/tmp\` directory of your app.\
The content of a \`tmp\` mount \*\*may be removed during infrastructure
maintenance operations\*\*. Therefore, \`tmp\` mounts allow you to
\*\*store files that you're not afraid to lose\*\*, such as your
application cache that can be seamlessly rebuilt.\
Note that the \`/tmp\` directory has \*\*a maximum allocation of 8
GB\*\*.\
\
- \`service\` mounts can be useful if you want to explicitly define and
use a \[Network Storage\](/add-services/network-storage.md) service to
share data between different apps (instead of using a \`storage\`
mount).\| \| \`source_path\` \| \`string\` \| No \| Specifies where the
mount points \*\*inside the \[external directory\](#mounts)\*\*.\
\
- If you explicitly set a \`source_path\`, your mount points to a
specific subdirectory in the external directory.\
\
- If the \`source_path\` is an empty string (\`\"\"\`), your mount
points to the entire external directory.\
\
- If you don\'t define a \`source_path\`, Upsun uses the MOUNT_PATH as
default value, without leading or trailing slashes.For example, if your
mount lives in the \`/web/uploads/\` directory in your app container, it
will point to a directory named \`web/uploads\` in the external
directory. \*\*WARNING:\*\* Changing the name of your mount affects the
\`source_path\` when it\'s undefined. See \[how to ensure
continuity\](#ensure-continuity-when-changing-the-name-of-your-mount)
and maintain access to your files. \| \| \`service\` \| \`string\` \| \|
The purpose of the \`service\` key depends on your use case. In a
multi-app context where a \`storage\` mount is shared between apps,
\`service\` is required. Its value is the name of the app whose mount
you want to share. See how to \[share a mount between several
apps\](#share-a-mount-between-several-apps). In a multi-app context
where a \[Network Storage service\](/add-services/network-storage.md)
(\`service\` mount) is shared between apps, \`service\` is required and
specifies the name of that Network Storage. \| The accessibility to the
web of a mounted directory depends on the \[\`web.locations\`
configuration\](#web). Files can be all public, all private, or with
different rules for different paths and file types. Note that when you
remove a \`tmp\` mount from your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file, the
mounted directory isn\'t deleted. The files still exist on disk until
manually removed, or until the app container is moved to another host
during a maintenance operation. \### Example configuration \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: nodejs:20 mounts:
\'web/uploads\': source: storage source_path: uploads
\'/.tmp_platformsh\': source: tmp source_path: files/.tmp_platformsh
\'/build\': source: storage source_path: files/build \'/.cache\':
source: tmp source_path: files/.cache \'/node_modules/.cache\': source:
tmp source_path: files/node_modules/.cache \`\`\` \### Ensure continuity
when changing the name of your mount Changing the name of your mount
affects the default \`source_path\`. Say you have a \`/my/cache/\` mount
with an undefined \`source_path\`: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
mounts: \'/my/cache/\': source: tmp \`\`\` If you rename the mount to
\`/cache/files/\`, it will point to a new, empty \`/cache/files/\`
directory. To ensure continuity, you need to explicitly define the
\`source_path\` as the previous name of the mount, without leading or
trailing slashes: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: mounts:
\'/cache/files/\': source: tmp source_path: my/cache \`\`\` The
\`/cache/files/\` mount will point to the original \`/my/cache/\`
directory, maintaining access to all your existing files in that
directory. \### Share a mount between several apps By design,
\[\`storage\` mounts\](#mounts) are shared \*\*between different
instances of the same app\*\*, which enables \[horizontal
scaling\](/manage-resources/\_index.md). In a \[multi-application
context\](/create-apps/multi-app/\_index.md), you can even share a
\`storage\` mount \*\*between different applications\*\* in the same
project. To do so, you need to define a \`storage\` mount in each of
your app containers, and point each of those mounts to the same shared
external network directory. Use the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: app1: mounts: \'MOUNT_PATH_1\': source: storage
source_path: SOURCE_PATH_LOCATION app2: mounts: \'MOUNT_PATH_2\':
source: storage service: app1 source_path: SOURCE_PATH_LOCATION \`\`\` -
MOUNT_PATH_1 and MOUNT_PATH_2 are the paths to each mount \*\*within
their respective app container\*\* (relative to the app\'s root). - When
configuring the first \`storage\` mount, you don\'t need to include the
\`service\` key. The first mount implicitly points to an external
network directory. The \`service\` key is required for subsequent
mounts, to ensure they use the same external network directory as the
first mount. - The \`source_path\` allows you to point each mount to the
same subdirectory \*\*within the shared external network directory\*\*.

### Example

You have a `backend` app and a `frontend` app. You want both apps to
share data from the same mount. Follow these steps:

1.  In your `backend` app configuration, define a `storage` mount:

    .upsun/config.yaml
    `applications: backend: mounts: var/uploads: #The path to your mount within the backend app container. source: storage source_path: backend/uploads #The path to the source of the mount within the external network directory.`

    This creates a `storage` mount named `var/uploads` in the `backend`
    app container. The mount points to the `backend/uploads` directory
    within an external network directory.

2.  In your `frontend` app configuration, define another `storage`
    mount:

    .upsun/config.yaml
    `applications: applications: backend: mounts: var/uploads: source: storage source_path: backend/uploads frontend: mounts: web/uploads: #The path to your mount within the frontend app container. source: storage service: backend #The name of the other app, so the mount can point to the same external network directory as that other app's mount. source_path: backend/uploads #The path to the source of the mount within the shared external network directory.`

    This creates another `storage` mount named `web/uploads` in the
    `frontend` app container.

    The `service` key allows you to specify that the `web/uploads` mount
    should use the same external network directory as the mount
    previously defined in the `backend` app container.

    The `source_path` key specifies which subdirectory within the
    external network directory both mounts should share ( here, the
    `backend/uploads` directory).

Note that another way to share data between apps through a mount is by
explicitly \[defining a Network Storage
service\](/add-services/network-storage.md). \### Overlapping mounts The
locations of mounts as they are visible to application containers can
overlap somewhat. For example: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \#
\... mounts: \'var/cache_a\': source: storage source_path: cacheA
\'var/cache_b\': source: tmp source_path: cacheB \'var/cache_c\':
source: instance source_path: cacheC \`\`\` In this case, it does not
matter that each mount is of a different \`source\` type. Each mount is
restricted to a subfolder within \`var\`, and all is well. The
following, however, is not allowed and will result in a failure:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \# \... mounts: \'var/\': source:
storage source_path: cacheA \'var/cache_b\': source: tmp source_path:
cacheB \'var/cache_c\': source: instance source_path: cacheC \`\`\` The
\`storage\` mount type specifically exists to share data between
instances of the same application, whereas \`tmp\` and \`instance\` are
meant to restrict data to build time and runtime of a single application
instance, respectively. These allowances are not compatible, and will
result in an error if pushed. \## Web Use the \`web\` key to configure
the web server running in front of your app. Defaults may vary with a
different \[image \`type\`\](#types). \| Name \| Type \| Required \|
Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`commands\` \| A \[web commands dictionary\](#web-commands) \| See
\[note\](#required-command) \| The command to launch your app. \| \|
\`upstream\` \| An \[upstream dictionary\](#upstream) \| \| How the
front server connects to your app. \| \| \`locations\` \| A \[locations
dictionary\](#locations) \| \| How the app container responds to
incoming requests. \| See some \[examples of how to configure what\'s
served\](../web/\_index.md). \### Web commands \| Name \| Type \|
Required \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`pre_start\` \| \`string\` \| \| Command run just prior to
\`start\`, which can be useful when you need to run \_per-instance\_
actions. \| \| \`start\` \| \`string\` \| See
\[note\](#required-command) \| The command to launch your app. If it
terminates, it\'s restarted immediately. \| Example: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: \'python:3.9\' web:
commands: start: \'uwsgi \--ini conf/server.ini\' \`\`\` This command
runs every time your app is restarted, regardless of whether or not new
code is deployed.

### Note

Never "background" a start process using `&`. That's interpreted as the
command terminating and the supervisor process starts a second copy,
creating an infinite loop until the container crashes. Just run it as
normal and allow the Upsun supervisor to manage it.

\#### Required command On all containers other than PHP, the value for
\`start\` should be treated as required. On PHP containers, it\'s
optional and defaults to starting PHP-FPM (\`/usr/bin/start-php-app\`).
It can also be set explicitly on a PHP container to run a dedicated
process, such as \[React
PHP\](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/platformsh-example-reactphp)
or
\[Amp\](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/platformsh-example-amphp).
See how to set up \[alternate start commands on
PHP\](/languages/php/\_index.md#alternate-start-commands). \### Upstream
\| Name \| Type \| Required \| Description \| Default \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`socket_family\` \| \`tcp\` or \`unix\` \| \| Whether your app
listens on a Unix or TCP socket. \| Defaults to \`tcp\` for all \[image
types\](#types) except PHP; for PHP image types the default is \`unix\`.
\| \| \`protocol\` \| \`http\` or \`fastcgi\` \| \| Whether your app
receives incoming requests over HTTP or FastCGI. \| Default varies based
on \[image \`type\`\](#types). \| For PHP, the defaults are configured
for PHP-FPM and shouldn\'t need adjustment. For all other containers,
the default for \`protocol\` is \`http\`. The following example is the
default on non-PHP containers: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" type: \'python:3.9\' web: upstream: socket_family:
tcp protocol: http \`\`\` \#### Where to listen Where to listen depends
on your setting for \`web.upstream.socket_family\` (defaults to
\`tcp\`). \| \`socket_family\` \| Where to listen \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`tcp\` \| The port specified by the \[\`PORT\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables)
\| \| \`unix\` \| The Unix socket file specified by the \[\`SOCKET\`
environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables)
\| If your application isn\'t listening at the same place that the
runtime is sending requests, you see \`502 Bad Gateway\` errors when you
try to connect to your website. \### Locations Each key in the
\`locations\` dictionary is a path on your site with a leading \`/\`.
For \`example.com\`, a \`/\` matches \`example.com/\` and \`/admin\`
matches \`example.com/admin\`. When multiple keys match an incoming
request, the most-specific applies. The following table presents
possible properties for each location: \| Name \| Type \| Default \|
Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`root\` \| \`string\` \| \| The directory to serve static assets for
this location relative to the \[app\'s root
directory\](#root-directory). Must be an actual directory inside the
root directory. \| \| \`passthru\` \| \`boolean\` or \`string\` \|
\`false\` \| Whether to forward disallowed and missing resources from
this location to the app. A string is a path with a leading \`/\` to the
controller, such as \`/index.php\`.\
\
If your app is in PHP, when setting \`passthru\` to \`true\`, you might
want to set \`scripts\` to \`false\` for enhanced security. This
prevents PHP scripts from being executed from the specified location.
You might also want to set \`allow\` to \`false\` so that not only PHP
scripts can\'t be executed, but their source code also can\'t be
delivered. \| \| \`index\` \| Array of \`string\`s or \`null\` \| \|
Files to consider when serving a request for a directory. When set,
requires access to the files through the \`allow\` or \`rules\` keys. \|
\| \`expires\` \| \`string\` \| \`-1\` \| How long static assets are
cached. The default means no caching. Setting it to a value enables the
\`Cache-Control\` and \`Expires\` headers. Times can be suffixed with
\`ms\` = milliseconds, \`s\` = seconds, \`m\` = minutes, \`h\` = hours,
\`d\` = days, \`w\` = weeks, \`M\` = months/30d, or \`y\` = years/365d.
If a \`Cache-Control\` appears on the \`headers\` configuration,
\`expires\`, if set, will be ignored. Thus, make sure to set the
\`Cache-Control\`\'s \`max-age\` value when specifying a the header. \|
\| \`allow\` \| \`boolean\` \| \`true\` \| Whether to allow serving
files which don\'t match a rule. \| \| \`scripts\` \| \`boolean\` \| \|
Whether to allow scripts to run. Doesn\'t apply to paths specified in
\`passthru\`. Meaningful only on PHP containers. \| \| \`headers\` \| A
headers dictionary \| \| Any additional headers to apply to static
assets, mapping header names to values. Responses from the app aren\'t
affected. \| \| \`request_buffering\` \| A \[request buffering
dictionary\](#request-buffering) \| See below \| Handling for chunked
requests. \| \| \`rules\` \| A \[rules dictionary\](#rules) \| \|
Specific overrides for specific locations. \| \#### Rules The rules
dictionary can override most other keys according to a regular
expression. The key of each item is a regular expression to match paths
exactly. If an incoming request matches the rule, it\'s handled by the
properties under the rule, overriding any conflicting rules from the
rest of the \`locations\` dictionary. Under \`rules\`, you can set all
of the other possible \[\`locations\` properties\](#locations) except
\`root\`, \`index\` and \`request_buffering\`. In the following example,
the \`allow\` key disallows requests for static files anywhere in the
site. This is overridden by a rule that explicitly allows common image
file formats. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\"
type: \'python:3.9\' web: locations: \'/\': \# Handle dynamic requests
root: \'public\' passthru: \'/index.php\' \# Disallow static files
allow: false rules: \# Allow common image files only.
\'\\.(jpe?g\|png\|gif\|svgz?\|css\|js\|map\|ico\|bmp\|eot\|woff2?\|otf\|ttf)\$\':
allow: true \`\`\` \#### Request buffering Request buffering is enabled
by default to handle chunked requests as most app servers don\'t support
them. The following table shows the keys in the \`request_buffering\`
dictionary: \| Name \| Type \| Required \| Default \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`enabled\` \| \`boolean\` \| Yes \| \`true\` \| Whether request
buffering is enabled. \| \| \`max_request_size\` \| \`string\` \| \|
\`250m\` \| The maximum size to allow in one request. \| The default
configuration would look like this: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" type: \'python:3.9\' web: locations: \'/\':
passthru: true request_buffering: enabled: true max_request_size: 250m
\`\`\` \## Workers Workers are exact copies of the code and compilation
output as a \`web\` instance after a \[\`build\` hook\](#hooks). They
use the same container image. Workers can\'t accept public requests and
so are suitable only for background tasks. If they exit, they\'re
automatically restarted. The keys of the \`workers\` definition are the
names of the workers. You can then define how each worker differs from
the \`web\` instance using the \[top-level
properties\](#primary-application-properties). Each worker can differ
from the \`web\` instance in all properties \_except\_ for: - \`build\`
and \`dependencies\` properties, which must be the same - \`crons\` as
cron jobs don\'t run on workers - \`hooks\` as the \`build\` hook must
be the same and the \`deploy\` and \`post_deploy\` hooks don\'t run on
workers. A worker named \`queue\` that was small and had a different
start command could look like this: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" type: \'python:3.9\' workers: queue: commands:
start: \| ./worker.sh \`\`\` Workers require resource definition using
\`upsun resources:set\`, same as application containers. For more
information, see how to \[manage resources\](/manage-resources.md). \##
Access The \`access\` dictionary has one allowed key: \| Name \| Allowed
values \| Default \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`ssh\` \| \`admin\`, \`contributor\`, or \`viewer\` \|
\`contributor\` \| Defines the minimum role required to access app
environments via SSH. \| In the following example, only users with
\`admin\` permissions for the given \[environment
type\](/administration/users.md#environment-type-roles) can access the
deployed environment via SSH: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source:
root: \"/\" type: \'python:3.9\' access: ssh: admin \`\`\` \## Variables
Upsun provides a number of ways to set
\[variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md). Variables set in your
app configuration have the lowest precedence, meaning they\'re
overridden by any conflicting values provided elsewhere. All variables
set in your app configuration must have a prefix. Some \[prefixes have
specific
meanings\](/development/variables/\_index.md#variable-prefixes).
Variables with the prefix \`env\` are available as a separate
environment variable. All other variables are available in the
\[\`PLATFORM_VARIABLES\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
The following example sets two variables: - A variable named
\`env:AUTHOR\` with the value \`Juan\` that\'s available in the
environment as \`AUTHOR\` - A variable named
\`d8config:system.site:name\` with the value \`My site rocks\` that\'s
available in the \`PLATFORM_VARIABLES\` environment variable \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: \'python:3.9\'
variables: env: AUTHOR: \'Juan\' d8config: \"system.site:name\": \'My
site rocks\' \`\`\` You can also define and access more \[complex
values\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#access-complex-values).
\## Firewall Set limits in outbound traffic from your app with no impact
on inbound requests. The \`outbound\` key is required and contains one
or more rules. The rules define what traffic is allowed; anything
unspecified is blocked. Each rule has the following properties where at
least one is required and \`ips\` and \`domains\` can\'t be specified
together: \| Name \| Type \| Default \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`ips\` \| Array of \`string\`s \| \`\[\"0.0.0.0/0\"\]\` \| IP
addresses in \[CIDR
notation\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing).
See a \[CIDR format converter\](https://www.ipaddressguide.com/cidr). \|
\| \`domains\` \| Array of \`string\`s \| \| \[Fully qualified domain
names\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name) to
specify specific destinations by hostname. \| \| \`ports\` \| Array of
\`integer\`s \| \| Ports from 1 to 65535 that are allowed. If any ports
are specified, all unspecified ports are blocked. If no ports are
specified, all ports are allowed. Port \`25\`, the SMTP port for sending
email, is always blocked. \| The default settings would look like this:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type:
\'python:3.9\' firewall: outbound: - ips: \[ \"0.0.0.0/0\" \] \`\`\`
\### Support for rules Where outbound rules for firewalls are supported
in all environments. \### Multiple rules Multiple firewall rules can be
specified. In such cases, a given outbound request is allowed if it
matches \_any\_ of the defined rules. So in the following example
requests to any IP on port 80 are allowed and requests to 1.2.3.4 on
either port 80 or 443 are allowed: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" type: \'python:3.9\' firewall: outbound: - ips: \[
\"1.2.3.4/32\" \] ports: \[ 443 \] - ports: \[ 80 \] \`\`\` \###
Outbound traffic to CDNs Be aware that many services are behind a
content delivery network (CDN). For most CDNs, routing is done via
domain name, not IP address, so thousands of domain names may share the
same public IP addresses at the CDN. If you allow the IP address of a
CDN, you are usually allowing many or all of the other customers hosted
behind that CDN. \### Outbound traffic by domain You can filter outbound
traffic by domain. Using domains in your rules rather than IP addresses
is generally more specific and secure. For example, if you use an IP
address for a service with a CDN, you have to allow the IP address for
the CDN. This means that you allow potentially hundreds or thousands of
other servers also using the CDN. An example rule filtering by domain:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type:
\'python:3.9\' firewall: outbound: - protocol: tcp domains: \[
\"api.stripe.com\", \"api.twilio.com\" \] ports: \[ 80, 443 \] -
protocol: tcp ips: \[ \"1.2.3.4/29\",\"2.3.4.5\" \] ports: \[ 22 \]
\`\`\` \#### Determine which domains to allow To determine which domains
to include in your filtering rules, find the domains your site has
requested the DNS to resolve. Run the following command to parse your
server's \`dns.log\` file and display all Fully Qualified Domain Names
that have been requested: \`\`\`bash awk \'/query\\\[\[\^P\]\\\]/ {
print \$6 \| \"sort -u\" }\' /var/log/dns.log \`\`\` The output includes
all DNS requests that were made, including those blocked by your
filtering rules. It doesn\'t include any requests made using an IP
address. Example output: \`\`\`bash facebook.com fastly.com upsun.com
www.google.com www.upsun.com \`\`\` \## Build The only property of the
\`build\` dictionary is \`flavor\`, which specifies a default set of
build tasks to run. Flavors are language-specific. See what the build
flavor is for your language: -
\[Node.js\](/languages/nodejs/\_index.md#dependencies) -
\[PHP\](/languages/php/\_index.md#dependencies) In all languages, you
can also specify a flavor of \`none\` to take no action at all (which is
the default for any language other than PHP and Node.js). \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: \'nodejs:22\' build:
flavor: none \`\`\` \## Dependencies Installs global dependencies as
part of the build process. They\'re independent of your app\'s
dependencies and are available in the \`PATH\` during the build process
and in the runtime environment. They\'re installed before the \`build\`
hook runs using a package manager for the language. \| Language \| Key
name \| Package manager \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| PHP \| \`php\` \| \[Composer\](https://getcomposer.org/) \| \| Python
2 \| \`python\` or \`python2\` \| \[Pip
2\](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/installing-packages/) \| \|
Python 3 \| \`python3\` \| \[Pip
3\](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/installing-packages/) \| \|
Ruby \| \`ruby\` \| \[Bundler\](https://bundler.io/) \| \| Node.js \|
\`nodejs\` \| \[npm\](https://www.npmjs.com/) (see \[how to use
yarn\](/languages/nodejs/\_index.md#use-yarn-as-a-package-manager)) \|
\| Java \| \`java\` \| \[Apache Maven\](https://maven.apache.org/),
\[Gradle\](https://gradle.org/), or \[Apache
Ant\](https://ant.apache.org/) \| The format for package names and
version constraints are defined by the specific package manager. An
example of dependencies in multiple languages: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: \'nodejs:22\'
dependencies: php: \# Specify one Composer package per line.
drush/drush: \'8.0.0\' composer/composer: \'\^2\' python2: \# Specify
one Python 2 package per line. behave: \'\*\' requests: \'\*\' python3:
\# Specify one Python 3 package per line. numpy: \'\*\' ruby: \# Specify
one Bundler package per line. sass: \'3.4.7\' nodejs: \# Specify one NPM
package per line. pm2: \'\^4.5.0\' \`\`\` \## Hooks There are three
different hooks that run as part of the process of building and
deploying your app. These are places where you can run custom scripts.
They are: the \`build\` hook, the \`deploy\` hook, and the
\`post_deploy\` hook. Only the \`build\` hook is run for \[worker
instances\](#workers), while \[web instances\](#web) run all three. The
process is ordered as: 1. Variables accessible at build time become
available. 1. \[Build flavor\](#build) runs if applicable. 1. Any
\[dependencies\](#dependencies) are installed. 1. The \`build\` hook is
run. 1. The file system is changed to read only (except for any
\[mounts\](#mounts)). 1. The app container starts. Variables accessible
at runtime and services become available. 1. The \`deploy\` hook is
run. 1. The app container begins accepting requests. 1. The
\`post_deploy\` hook is run. Note that if an environment changes by no
code changes, only the last step is run. If you want the entire process
to run, see how to \[manually trigger
builds\](/development/troubleshoot.md#manually-trigger-builds). \###
Writable directories during build During the \`build\` hook, there are
three writeable directories: - \`PLATFORM_APP_DIR\`: Where your code is
checked out and the working directory when the \`build\` hook starts.
Becomes the app that gets deployed. - \`PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR\`: Persists
between builds, but isn\'t deployed. Shared by all builds on all
branches. - \`/tmp\`: Isn\'t deployed and is wiped between each build.
Note that \`PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR\` is mapped to \`/tmp\` and together they
offer about 8GB of free space. \### Hook failure Each hook is executed
as a single script, so they\'re considered to have failed only if the
final command in them fails. To cause them to fail on the first failed
command, add \`set -e\` to the beginning of the hook. If a \`build\`
hook fails for any reason, the build is aborted and the deploy doesn\'t
happen. Note that this only works for \`build\` hooks \-- if other hooks
fail, the app is still deployed. \#### Automated testing It's preferable
that you set up and run automated tests in a dedicated CI/CD tool.
Relying on Upsun hooks for such tasks can prove difficult. During the
\`build\` hook, you can halt the deployment on a test failure but the
following limitations apply: - Access to services such as databases,
Redis, Vault KMS, and even writable mounts is disabled. So any testing
that relies on it is sure to fail. - If you haven't made changes to your
app, an existing build image is reused and the build hook isn't run. -
Test results are written into your app container, so they might get
exposed to a third party. During the \`deploy\` hook, you can access
services but \*\*you can't halt the deployment based on a test
failure\*\*. Note that there are other downsides: - Your app container
is read-only during the deploy hook, so if your tests need to write
reports and other information, you need to create a file mount for
them. - Your app can only be deployed once the deploy hook has been
completed. Therefore, running automated testing via the deploy hook
generates slower deployments. - Your environment isn't available
externally during the deploy hook. Unit and integration testing might
work without the environment being available, but you can't typically
perform end-to-end testing until after the environment is up and
available. \## Crons The keys of the \`crons\` definition are the names
of the cron jobs. The names must be unique. If an application defines
both a \`web\` instance and \`worker\` instances, cron jobs run only on
the \`web\` instance. See how to \[get cron
logs\](/increase-observability/logs/access-logs.md#container-logs). The
following table shows the properties for each job: \| Name \| Type \|
Required \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`spec\` \| \`string\` \| Yes \| The \[cron
specification\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron#Cron_expression). To
prevent competition for resources that might hurt performance, use \`H\`
in definitions to indicate an unspecified but invariant time. For
example, instead of using \`0 \* \* \* \*\` to indicate the cron job
runs at the start of every hour, you can use \`H \* \* \* \*\` to
indicate it runs every hour, but not necessarily at the start. This
prevents multiple cron jobs from trying to start at the same time. \| \|
\`commands\` \| A \[cron commands dictionary\](#cron-commands) \| Yes \|
A definition of what commands to run when starting and stopping the cron
job. \| \| \`shutdown_timeout\` \| \`integer\` \| No \| When a cron is
canceled, this represents the number of seconds after which a
\`SIGKILL\` signal is sent to the process to force terminate it. The
default is \`10\` seconds. \| \| \`timeout\` \| \`integer\` \| No \| The
maximum amount of time a cron can run before it\'s terminated. Defaults
to the maximum allowed value of \`86400\` seconds (24 hours). \| Note
that you can \[cancel pending or running
crons\](/environments/cancel-activity.md). \### Cron commands \| Name \|
Type \| Required \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`start\` \| \`string\` \| Yes \| The command that\'s run. It\'s run
in \[Dash\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Almquist_shell). \| \|
\`stop\` \| \`string\` \| No \| The command that\'s issued to give the
cron command a chance to shutdown gracefully, such as to finish an
active item in a list of tasks. Issued when a cron task is interrupted
by a user through the CLI or Console. If not specified, a \`SIGTERM\`
signal is sent to the process. \| \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" type: \'nodejs:22\' crons: mycommand: spec: \'H \*
\* \* \*\' commands: start: sleep 60 && echo sleep-60-finished && date
stop: killall sleep shutdown_timeout: 18 \`\`\` In this example
configuration, the \[cron specification\](#crons) uses the \`H\` syntax.
\### Example cron jobs

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Drupal
-   Ruby on Rails
-   Laravel
-   Symfony

.upsun/config.yaml
`` applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'php:8.4' crons: # Run Drupal's cron tasks every 19 minutes. drupal: spec: '*/19 * * * *' commands: start: 'cd web ; drush core-cron' # But also run pending queue tasks every 7 minutes. # Use an odd number to avoid running at the same time as the `drupal` cron. drush-queue: spec: '*/7 * * * *' commands: start: 'cd web ; drush queue-run aggregator_feeds'  ``
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'ruby:3.3' crons: # Execute a rake script every 19 minutes. ruby: spec: '*/19 * * * *' commands: start: 'bundle exec rake some:task' `
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'php:8.4' crons: # Run Laravel's scheduler every 5 minutes. scheduler: spec: '*/5 * * * *' commands: start: 'php artisan schedule:run' `
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" type: 'php:8.4' crons: # Take a backup of the environment every day at 5:00 AM. snapshot: spec: 0 5 * * * commands: start: | # Only run for the production environment, aka main branch if [ "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" = "production" ]; then croncape symfony ... fi `
\### Conditional crons If you want to set up customized cron schedules
depending on the environment type, define conditional crons. To do so,
use a configuration similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: \'php:8.4\' crons:
update: spec: \'0 0 \* \* \*\' commands: start: \| if \[
\"\$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\" = production \]; then upsun
backup:create \--yes \--no-wait upsun source-operation:run update
\--no-wait \--yes fi \`\`\` \### Cron job timing The minimum time
between cron jobs being triggered is 5 minutes. For each app container,
only one cron job can run at a time. If a new job is triggered while
another is running, the new job is paused until the other completes. To
minimize conflicts, a random offset is applied to all triggers. The
offset is a random number of seconds up to 20 minutes or the cron
frequency, whichever is smaller. Crons are also paused while activities
such as \[backups\](/environments/backup) are running. The crons are
queued to run after the other activity finishes. To run cron jobs in a
timezone other than UTC, set the \[timezone
property\](#primary-application-properties). \### Paused crons \[Preview
environments\](/glossary.md#preview-environment) are often used for a
limited time and then abandoned. While it\'s useful for environments
under active development to have scheduled tasks, unused environments
don\'t need to run cron jobs. To minimize unnecessary resource use,
crons on environments with no deployments are paused. This affects all
preview environments, \_and\_ production environment that do not yet
have a domain attached to them. Such environments with deployments
within 14 days have crons with the status \`running\`. If there haven\'t
been any deployments within 14 days, the status is \`paused\`. You can
see the status in the Console or using the CLI by running \`upsun
environment:info\` and looking under \`deployment_state\`. \####
Restarting paused crons If the crons on your preview environment are
paused but you\'re still using them, you can push changes to the
environment or redeploy it. To restart crons without changing anything:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  In the Console, navigate to your project.
2.  Open the environment where you'd like the crons to run.
3.  Click `Redeploy` next to the cron status of `Paused`.

Run the following command:

`upsun redeploy` \## Runtime The following table presents the various
possible modifications to your PHP or Lisp runtime: \| Name \| Type \|
Language \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`extensions\` \| List of \`string\`s OR \[extensions
definitions\](#extensions) \| PHP \| \[PHP
extensions\](/languages/php/extensions.md) to enable. \| \|
\`disabled_extensions\` \| List of \`string\`s \| PHP \| \[PHP
extensions\](/languages/php/extensions.md) to disable. \| \|
\`request_terminate_timeout\` \| \`integer\` \| PHP \| The timeout for
serving a single request after which the PHP-FPM worker process is
killed. \| \| \`sizing_hints\` \| A \[sizing hints
definition\](#sizing-hints) \| PHP \| The assumptions for setting the
number of workers in your PHP-FPM runtime. \| \| \`xdebug\` \| An Xdebug
definition \| PHP \| The setting to turn on
\[Xdebug\](/languages/php/xdebug.md). \| \| \`quicklisp\` \|
Distribution definitions \| Lisp \| \[Distributions for
QuickLisp\](/languages/lisp.md#quicklisp-options) to use. \| You can
also set your \[app\'s runtime timezone\](/create-apps/timezone.md).
\### Extensions

### Note

You can now use the Upsun composable image (BETA) to install runtimes
and tools in your application container. If you've reached this section
from another page and are using the composable image, enabling/disabling
extensions should be placed under the `stack` key instead of what is
listed below. See [how to configure extensions with the composable
image](/create-apps/app-reference/composable-image.html#primary-application-properties).

You can enable \[PHP extensions\](/languages/php/extensions.md) just
with a list of extensions: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source:
root: \"/\" type: \'php:8.4\' runtime: extensions: - geoip - tidy \`\`\`
Alternatively, if you need to include configuration options, use a
dictionary for that extension: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" type: \'php:8.4\' runtime: extensions: - geoip -
name: blackfire configuration: server_id: foo server_token: bar \`\`\`
In this case, the \`name\` property is required. \### Sizing hints The
following table shows the properties that can be set in
\`sizing_hints\`: \| Name \| Type \| Default \| Minimum \| Description
\|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`request_memory\` \| \`integer\` \| 45 \| 10 \| The average memory
consumed per request in MB. \| \| \`reserved_memory\` \| \`integer\` \|
70 \| 70 \| The amount of memory reserved in MB. \| See more about
\[PHP-FPM workers and sizing\](/languages/php/fpm.md). \## Source The
following table shows the properties that can be set in \`source\`: \|
Name \| Type \| Required \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`operations\` \| An operations dictionary \| \| Operations that can
be applied to the source code. See \[source
operations\](../source-operations.md) \| \| \`root\` \| \`string\` \| \|
The path where the app code lives. Defaults to the root project
directory. Useful for \[multi-app setups\](../multi-app/\_index.md). \|
\## Container profile By default, Upsun allocates a container profile to
each app and service depending on the range of resources it's expected
to need. Each container profile gives you access to a specific list of
CPU and RAM combinations. Using the Upsun CLI or Console, you can then
pick a CPU and RAM combination for each of your apps and services. -
\[Container profile types and
resources\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources#advanced-container-profiles) -
\[Default container
profiles\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources#default-container-profiles)
for runtime and service containers - \[Customize resources using the
\`container_profile\`
key\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources#adjust-a-container-profile) \##
Additional hosts If you\'re using a private network with specific IP
addresses you need to connect to, you might want to map those addresses
to hostnames to better remember and organize them. In such cases, you
can add a map of those IP addresses to whatever hostnames you like. Then
when your app tries to access the hostname, it\'s sent to the proper IP
address. So in the following example, if your app tries to access
\`api.example.com\`, it\'s sent to \`192.0.2.23\`. \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: \'php:8.4\'
additional_hosts: api.example.com: \"192.0.2.23\" web.example.com:
\"203.0.113.42\" \`\`\` This is equivalent to adding the mapping to the
\`/etc/hosts\` file for the container. #Composable image The Upsun
composable image provides enhanced flexibility when defining your app.
It allows you to install several runtimes and tools in your application
container, in a \*\*\"one image to rule them all\"\*\* approach. The
composable image is built on \[Nix\](https://nix.dev), which offers the
following benefits: - You can add as many packages to your application
container as you need, choosing from over 80,000 packages from \[the
Nixpkgs collection\](https://search.nixos.org/packages). - The packages
you add are built in total isolation, so you can install different
versions of the same package. - With
\[Nix\](https://nix.dev/reference/glossary#term-Nix), there are no
undeclared dependencies in your source code. What works on your local
machine is guaranteed to work on any other machine. This page introduces
all the settings available to configure your composable image from your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file (usually located at the root of your Git
repository). Note that multi-app projects can be \[set in various
ways\](../multi-app/\_index.md). If you\'re pressed for time, jump to
this comprehensive \[configuration
example\](../\_index.md#comprehensive-example). \## Primary application
properties All application configuration takes place in a
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file, with each application configured under a
unique key beneath the top-level \`applications\` key. It is possible to
use multiple runtimes in a single application container, for instance
PHP, NodeJS and Python, while remaining in control of their versions.
For example, the unified \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file may look like the
following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: frontend: stack: - \"php@8.4\":
extensions: - apcu - sodium - xsl - pdo_sqlite - \"nodejs@22\" -
\"python@3.12\" \# Additional frontend configuration \`\`\` The
following table presents all properties available at the level just
below the unique application name (\`frontend\` above). The column \_Set
in instance?\_ defines whether the given property can be overridden
within a \`web\` or \`workers\` instance. To override any part of a
property, you have to provide the entire property. \| Name \| Type \|
Required \| Set in instance? \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`stack\` \| An array of \[Nix packages\](#stack) \| Yes \| No \| A
list of packages from the Upsun collection of \[supported
runtimes\](#supported-nix-packages) and/or from
\[NixPkgs\](https://search.nixos.org/packages). \| \| \`relationships\`
\| A dictionary of \[relationships\](#relationships) \| \| Yes \|
Connections to other services and apps. \| \| \`mounts\` \| A dictionary
of \[mounts\](#mounts) \| \| Yes \| Directories that are writable even
after the app is built. Allocated disk for mounts is defined with a
separate resource configuration call using \`upsun resources:set\`. \|
\| \`web\` \| A \[web instance\](#web) \| \| N/A \| How the web
application is served. \| \| \`workers\` \| A \[worker
instance\](#workers) \| \| N/A \| Alternate copies of the application to
run as background processes. \| \| \`timezone\` \| \`string\` \| \| No
\| The timezone for crons to run. Format: a \[TZ database
name\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones).
Defaults to \`UTC\`, which is the timezone used for all logs no matter
the value here. See also \[app runtime timezones\](../timezone.md) \| \|
\`access\` \| An \[access dictionary\](#access) \| \| Yes \| Access
control for roles accessing app environments. \| \| \`variables\` \| A
\[variables dictionary\](#variables) \| \| Yes \| Variables to control
the environment. \| \| \`firewall\` \| A \[firewall
dictionary\](#firewall) \| \| Yes \| Outbound firewall rules for the
application. \| \| \`hooks\` \| A \[hooks dictionary\](#hooks) \| \| No
\| What commands run at different stages in the build and deploy
process. \| \| \`crons\` \| A \[cron dictionary\](#crons) \| \| No \|
Scheduled tasks for the app. \| \| \`source\` \| A \[source
dictionary\](#source) \| \| No \| Information on the app\'s source code
and operations that can be run on it. \| \| \`additional_hosts\` \| An
\[additional hosts dictionary\](#additional-hosts) \| \| Yes \| Maps of
hostnames to IP addresses. \|

### Note

The `type`, `build`, `dependencies`, and `runtime` keys are only
supported when using a single-runtime image. They are **not** supported
when using the composable image. They are replaced by the `stack` key.

\## Stack Use the \`\`stack\`\` key to define which runtimes and
binaries you want to install in your application container. Define them
as a YAML array as follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: stack: \[
\"@\" \] \# OR stack: - \"@\" \`\`\` To add a language to your stack,
use the \`@\` format. To add a tool to your stack, use the \`\` format,
as no version is needed.

### Warning

While technically available during the build phase, `nix` commands
aren't supported at runtime as the image becomes read-only.

When using the Upsun composable image, you don't need `nix` commands.
Everything you install using the `stack` key is readily available to you
as the binaries are linked and included in `$PATH`.

For instance, to [start a secondary runtime](#primary-runtime), just
issue the command (e.g. in the [`start`
command](/create-apps/app-reference/composable-image.html#web-commands))
instead of the `nix run` command.

\#### Primary runtime If you add multiple runtimes to your application
container, the first declared runtime becomes the primary runtime. The
primary runtime is the one that is automatically started. To start other
declared runtimes, you need to start them manually, using \[web
commands\](#web-commands). To find out which start command to use, go to
the \[Languages\](/languages/\_index.md) section, and visit the
documentation page dedicated to your runtime.

### Note

If you use PHP, note that PHP-FPM is only started automatically if PHP
is defined as the primary runtime.

\### Supported Nix packages

### Note

The Nix packages listed in the following table are officially supported
by Upsun to provide optimal user experience. However, you can add any
other packages from the Nixpkgs collection to your `stack`. This
includes packages from the `unstable` channel, like
[FrankenPHP](https://search.nixos.org/packages?channel=unstable&show=frankenphp&from=0&size=50&sort=relevance&type=packages&query=frankenphp).
While available for you to install, packages that aren't listed in the
following table are supported by Nix itself, not Upsun.

Depending on the Nix package, you can select only the major runtime
version, or the major and minor runtime versions as shown in the table.
Security and other patches are applied automatically. \|
\*\*Language\*\* \| \*\*Nix package\*\* \| \*\*Supported version(s)\*\*
\|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \[Clojure\](https://clojure.org/) \| \`clojure\` \| 1 \| \| \[Common
Lisp (SBCL)\](/languages/lisp.html) \| \`sbcl\` \| 2 \| \|
\[Elixir\](/languages/elixir.html) \| \`elixir\` \| 1.15\
1.14 \| \| \[Go\](/languages/go.html) \| \`golang\` \| 1.22\
1.21 \| \| \[Java\](/languages/java.html) \| \`java\` \| 21 \| \|
\[Javascript/Bun\](https://bun.sh/) \| \`bun\` \| 1 \| \|
\[JavaScript/Node.js\](/languages/nodejs.html) \| \`nodejs\` \| 22\
20\
18 \| \| \[Perl\](https://www.perl.org/) \| \`perl\` \| 5 \| \|
\[PHP\](/languages/php.html) \| \`php\` \| 8.3\
8.2\
8.1 \| \| \[Python\](/languages/python.html) \| \`python\` \| 3.12\
3.11\
3.10\
3.9\
2.7 \| \| \[Ruby\](/languages/ruby.html) \| \`ruby\` \| 3.3\
3.2\
3.1 \| \*\*Example:\*\* You want to add PHP version 8.4 and
\`\`facedetect\`\` to your application container. To do so, use the
following configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: stack: \[
\"php@8.4\", \"facedetect\" \] \# OR stack: - \"php@8.4\" -
\"facedetect\" \`\`\` \### PHP extensions and Python packages When you
add PHP or Python to your application container, you can define which
extensions (for PHP) or packages (for Python) you also want to add to
your stack. To find out which extensions you can install with your
runtime, follow these steps: 1. Go to the \[NixOS
search\](https://search.nixos.org/). 2. Enter a runtime and click
\*\*Search\*\*. 3. In the \*\*Package sets\*\* side bar, select the
right set of extensions/packages for your runtime version. You can
choose the desired extensions/packages from the filtered results.
\![Screenshot of the Nix package sets selection for
PHP@8.3\](/images/nixos/nixos-packages.png \"0.5\") \#### Install PHP
extensions To enable \[PHP extensions\](/languages/php/extensions.md),
specify a list of \`extensions\` below the language definition. To
disable \[PHP extensions\](/languages/php/extensions.md), specify a list
of \`disabled_extensions\` below the language definition. For instance:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" stack: -
\"php@8.4\": extensions: - apcu - sodium - xsl - pdo_sqlite
disabled_extensions: - gd \`\`\`

### Note

To help you find out the name of the PHP package you want to use, some
maintainers provide a `PHP upstream extension` value in the [NixOS
search
engine](https://search.nixos.org/packages?channel=unstable&show=php82Extensions.gd).

If this information is not provided, note that PHP package names on
NixOS always respect the `<PHP><VERSION>Extensions.<EXTENSION-NAME>`
format. Therefore, you can copy the `<EXTENSION-NAME>` as shown in the
NixOS search results, and use it in your configuration.

Note that you can use environment variables or your `php.ini` file to
[include further configuration
options](/languages/php.html#customize-php-settings) for your PHP
extensions.

\#### Install Python packages To install Python packages, add them to
your stack as new packages. To do so, use the full name of the package.
For instance, to install
\[\`\`python312Packages.yq\`\`\](https://search.nixos.org/packages?channel=unstable&show=python312Packages.yq),
use the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
stack: - \"python@3.12\" - \"python312Packages.yq\" \# python package
specific \`\`\` Alternatively, if you need to include configuration
options for your extensions, use either your \`\`php.ini\`\` file or
\[environment variables\](/development/variables/set-variables.md). \###
Example configuration Here is a full composable image configuration
example. Note the use of the \`@\` format. \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: stack: - \"php@8.4\": extensions: - apcu - sodium - xsl -
pdo_sqlite - \"python@3.12\" - \"python312Packages.yq\" \# python
package specific - \"yq\" \# tool \`\`\` \### Combine single-runtime and
composable images In a \[multiple application
context\](/create-apps/multi-app/\_index.md), you can use a mix of
\[single-runtime
images\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md) and
\[composable images\](/create-apps/app-reference/composable-image.md).
Here is an example configuration including a \`\`frontend\`\` app and a
\`\`backend\`\` app: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: frontend: stack: -
\"php@8.4\": extensions: - apcu - sodium - xsl - pdo_sqlite -
\"python@3.12\" - \"python312Packages.yq\" \# python package specific
backend: type: \'nodejs:22 \`\`\`

### Note

If you add multiple runtimes to your application container, the first
declared runtime becomes the primary runtime. The primary runtime is the
one that is automatically started.

To start other declared runtimes, you need to start them manually, using
[web commands](#web-commands). To find out which start command to use,
go to the Languages section, and visit the documentation page dedicated
to your language.

If you use PHP, note that PHP-FPM is only started automatically if PHP
is defined as the primary runtime.

\## Resources Resources for application containers are not committed to
YAML files, but instead managed over the API using either the Console or
the \`upsun resources:set\` command. For more information, see how to
\[manage resources\](/manage-resources.md).

### Note

Composable image container profile defaults to `HIGH_CPU`.\
If multiple runtimes are added to your stack, you would need to change
the [default
container_profile](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.html#advanced-container-profiles)\
or change default CPU and RAM ratio on first deployment using the
following commands:

`upsun push --resources-init=manual`

\## Relationships To allow containers in your project to communicate
with one another, you need to define relationships between them. You can
define a relationship between an app and a service, or \[between two
apps\](/create-apps/multi-app/relationships.md). The quickest way to
define a relationship between your app and a service is to use the
service\'s default endpoint. However, some services allow you to define
multiple databases, cores, and/or permissions. In these cases, you
can\'t rely on default endpoints. Instead, you can explicitly define
multiple endpoints when setting up your relationships.

### Note

App containers don't have a default endpoint like services. To connect
your app to another app in your project, you need to explicitly define
the `http` endpoint as the endpoint to connect both apps. For more
information, see how to define relationships between your apps.

### Availability

New syntax (default and explicit endpoints) described below is supported
by most, but not all, image types
(`Relationship 'SERVICE_NAME' of application 'myapp' ... targets a service without a valid default endpoint configuration.`).
This syntax is currently being rolled out for all images. If you
encounter this error, use the "legacy" Upsun configuration noted at the
bottom of this section.

To define a relationship between your app and a service:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

Use the following configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: SERVICE_NAME:`

The `SERVICE_NAME` is the name of the service as defined in its
configuration. It is used as the relationship name, and associated with
a `null` value. This instructs Upsun to use the service's default
endpoint to connect your app to the service.

For example, if you define the following configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: mariadb:`

Upsun looks for a service named `mariadb` in your `.upsun/config.yaml`
file, and connects your app to it through the service's default
endpoint.

For reference, the equivalent configuration using explicit endpoints
would be the following:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: mariadb: service: mariadb endpoint: mysql`

You can define any number of relationships in this way:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: mariadb: redis: elasticsearch:`

### Tip

An even quicker way to define many relationships is to use the following
single-line configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: {SERVICE_NAME_A, SERVICE_NAME_B, SERVICE_NAME_C} services: SERVICE_NAME_A: type: mariadb:11.4 SERVICE_NAME_B: type: redis:7.2 SERVICE_NAME_C: type: elasticsearch:8.5`

Use the following configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: RELATIONSHIP_NAME: service: SERVICE_NAME endpoint: ENDPOINT_NAME`

-   `RELATIONSHIP_NAME` is the name you want to give to the
    relationship.
-   `SERVICE_NAME` is the name of the service as defined in its
    configuration.
-   `ENDPOINT_NAME` is the endpoint your app will use to connect to the
    service (refer to the service reference to know which value to use).

For example, to define a relationship named `database` that connects
your app to a service called `mariadb` through the `db1` endpoint, use
the following configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: database: # The name of the relationship. service: mariadb endpoint: db1`

For more information on how to handle multiple databases, multiple
cores, and/or different permissions with services that support such
features, see each service's dedicated page:

-   [MariaDB/MySQL](/add-services/mysql.html#multiple-databases)
    (multiple databases and permissions)
-   [PostgreSQL](/add-services/postgresql.html#multiple-databases)
    (multiple databases and permissions)
-   [Redis](/add-services/redis.html#multiple-databases) (multiple
    databases)
-   [Solr](/add-services/solr.html#solr-6-and-later) (multiple cores)
-   [Vault KMS](/add-services/vault.html#multiple-endpoints-example)
    (multiple permissions)

You can add as many relationships as you want to your app configuration,
using both default and explicit endpoints according to your needs:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: database1: service: mariadb endpoint: admin database2: service: mariadb endpoint: legacy cache: service: redis search: service: elasticsearch`

### Legacy

The following legacy syntax for specifying relationships is still
supported by Upsun:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: "<SERVICE_NAME>:<ENDPOINT_NAME>" services: SERVICE_NAME_A: type: mariadb:11.4`

For example:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: APP_NAME: # ... relationships: database: "db:mysql" services: db: type: mariadb:11.4`

Feel free to use this until the default and explicit endpoint syntax is
supported on all images.

\## Available disk space Disk for application containers are not
committed to YAML files, but instead managed over the API using either
the Console or the \`upsun resources:set\` command. For more
information, see how to \[manage resources\](/manage-resources.md). \###
Downsize a disk You can decrease the size of an existing disk for an
app. If you do so, be aware that: - Backups from before the downsize are
incompatible and can no longer be used. You need to \[create new
backups\](/environments/backup). - The downsize fails if there's more
data on the disk than the desired size. \## Mounts After your app is
built, its file system is read-only. To make changes to your app\'s
code, you need to use Git. For enhanced flexibility, Upsun allows you to
define and use writable directories called \"mounts\". Mounts give you
write access to files generated by your app (such as cache and log
files) and uploaded files without going through Git. When you define a
mount, you are mounting an external directory to your app container,
much like you would plug a hard drive into your computer to transfer
data.

### Note

-   Mounts aren't available during the build
-   When you back up an environment, the mounts on that environment are
    backed up too

\### Define a mount To define a mount, use the following configuration:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" stack: \[
\"nodejs@22\" \] mounts: \'MOUNT_PATH\': source: MOUNT_TYPE source_path:
SOURCE_PATH_LOCATION \`\`\` MOUNT_PATH is the path to your mount
\*\*within the app container\*\* (relative to the app\'s root). If you
already have a directory with that name, you get a warning that it
isn\'t accessible after the build. See how to \[troubleshoot the
warning\](../troubleshoot-mounts.md#overlapping-folders). \| Name \|
Type \| Required \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`source\` \| \`storage\`, \`tmp\`, or \`service\` \| Yes \|
Specifies the type of the mount:\
\
- By design, \`storage\` mounts can be shared between instances of the
same app. You can also configure them so they are \[shared between
different apps\](#share-a-mount-between-several-apps).\
\
-\`instance\` mounts are local mounts. Unique to your app, they are
useful to store files that remain local to the app instance, such as
application logs.\
\
- \`tmp\` mounts are local ephemeral mounts, where an external directory
is mounted to the \`/tmp\` directory of your app.\
The content of a \`tmp\` mount \*\*may be removed during infrastructure
maintenance operations\*\*. Therefore, \`tmp\` mounts allow you to
\*\*store files that you're not afraid to lose\*\*, such as your
application cache that can be seamlessly rebuilt.\
Note that the \`/tmp\` directory has \*\*a maximum allocation of 8
GB\*\*.\
\
- \`service\` mounts can be useful if you want to explicitly define and
use a \[Network Storage\](/add-services/network-storage.md) service to
share data between different apps (instead of using a \`storage\`
mount). \| \| \`source_path\` \| \`string\` \| No \| Specifies where the
mount points \*\*inside the \[external directory\](#mounts)\*\*.\
\
- If you explicitly set a \`source_path\`, your mount points to a
specific subdirectory in the external directory.\
\
- If the \`source_path\` is an empty string (\`\"\"\`), your mount
points to the entire external directory.\
\
- If you don\'t define a \`source_path\`, Upsun uses the MOUNT_PATH as
default value, without leading or trailing slashes.For example, if your
mount lives in the \`/web/uploads/\` directory in your app container, it
will point to a directory named \`web/uploads\` in the external
directory. \*\*WARNING:\*\* Changing the name of your mount affects the
\`source_path\` when it\'s undefined. See \[how to ensure
continuity\](#ensure-continuity-when-changing-the-name-of-your-mount)
and maintain access to your files. \| \| \`service\` \| \`string\` \| \|
The purpose of the \`service\` key depends on your use case. In a
multi-app context where a \`storage\` mount is shared between apps,
\`service\` is required. Its value is the name of the app whose mount
you want to share. See how to \[share a mount between several
apps\](#share-a-mount-between-several-apps). In a multi-app context
where a \[Network Storage service\](/add-services/network-storage.md)
(\`service\` mount) is shared between apps, \`service\` is required and
specifies the name of that Network Storage. \| The accessibility to the
web of a mounted directory depends on the \[\`web.locations\`
configuration\](#web). Files can be all public, all private, or with
different rules for different paths and file types. Note that when you
remove a \`tmp\` mount from your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file, the
mounted directory isn\'t deleted. The files still exist on disk until
manually removed, or until the app container is moved to another host
during a maintenance operation. \### Example configuration \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" stack: \[ \"nodejs@22\" \]
mounts: \'web/uploads\': source: storage source_path: uploads
\'/.tmp_platformsh\': source: tmp source_path: files/.tmp_platformsh
\'/build\': source: storage source_path: files/build \'/.cache\':
source: tmp source_path: files/.cache \'/node_modules/.cache\': source:
tmp source_path: files/node_modules/.cache \`\`\` \### Ensure continuity
when changing the name of your mount Changing the name of your mount
affects the default \`source_path\`. Say you have a \`/my/cache/\` mount
with an undefined \`source_path\`: \`\`\`yaml {} mounts: \'/my/cache/\':
source: tmp \`\`\` If you rename the mount to \`/cache/files/\`, it will
point to a new, empty \`/cache/files/\` directory. To ensure continuity,
you need to explicitly define the \`source_path\` as the previous name
of the mount, without leading or trailing slashes: \`\`\`yaml {} mounts:
\'/cache/files/\': source: tmp source_path: my/cache \`\`\` The
\`/cache/files/\` mount will point to the original \`/my/cache/\`
directory, maintaining access to all your existing files in that
directory. \### Share a mount between several apps By design,
\[\`storage\` mounts\](#mounts) are shared \*\*between different
instances of the same app\*\*, which enables \[horizontal
scaling\](/manage-resources/\_index.md). In a \[multi-application
context\](/create-apps/multi-app/\_index.md), you can even share a
\`storage\` mount \*\*between different applications\*\* in the same
project. To do so, you need to define a \`storage\` mount in each of
your app containers, and point each of those mounts to the same shared
external network directory. Use the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: app1: mounts: \'MOUNT_PATH_1\': source: storage
source_path: SOURCE_PATH_LOCATION app2: mounts: \'MOUNT_PATH_2\':
source: storage service: app1 source_path: SOURCE_PATH_LOCATION \`\`\` -
MOUNT_PATH_1 and MOUNT_PATH_2 are the paths to each mount \*\*within
their respective app container\*\* (relative to the app\'s root). - When
configuring the first \`storage\` mount, you don\'t need to include the
\`service\` key. The first mount implicitly points to an external
network directory. The \`service\` key is required for subsequent
mounts, to ensure they use the same external network directory as the
first mount. - The \`source_path\` allows you to point each mount to the
same subdirectory \*\*within the shared external network directory\*\*.

### Example

You have a `backend` app and a `frontend` app. You want both apps to
share data from the same mount. Follow these steps:

1.  In your `backend` app configuration, define a `storage` mount:

    .upsun/config.yaml
    `applications: backend: mounts: var/uploads: #The path to your mount within the backend app container. source: storage source_path: backend/uploads #The path to the source of the mount within the external network directory.`

    This creates a `storage` mount named `var/uploads` in the `backend`
    app container. The mount points to the `backend/uploads` directory
    within an external network directory.

2.  In your `frontend` app configuration, define another `storage`
    mount:

    .upsun/config.yaml
    `applications: backend: mounts: var/uploads: source: storage source_path: backend/uploads frontend: mounts: web/uploads: #The path to your mount within the frontend app container. source: storage service: backend #The name of the other app, so the mount can point to the same external network directory as that other app's mount. source_path: backend/uploads #The path to the source of the mount within the shared external network directory.`

    This creates another `storage` mount named `web/uploads` in the
    `frontend` app container.

    The `service` key allows you to specify that the `web/uploads` mount
    should use the same external network directory as the mount
    previously defined in the `backend` app container.

    The `source_path` key specifies which subdirectory within the
    external network directory both mounts should share ( here, the
    `backend/uploads` directory).

Note that another way to share data between apps through a mount is by
explicitly \[defining a Network Storage
service\](/add-services/network-storage.md). \### Local mounts If you
need a local mount (i.e. unique per container), Upsun allows you to
mount a directory within the \`/tmp\` directory of your app. However,
the following limitations apply: - Content from \`tmp\` mounts is
removed when your app container is moved to another host during an
infrastructure maintenance operation - The \`/tmp\` directory has a
\[maximum allocation of 8
GB\](/create-apps/troubleshoot-disks.md#no-space-left-on-device)
Therefore, \`tmp\` mounts are ideal to store non-critical data, such as
your application cache which can be seamlessly rebuilt, but aren\'t
suitable for storing files that are necessary for your app to run
smoothly. Note that Upsun will provide new local mounts in the near
future. \### Overlapping mounts The locations of mounts as they are
visible to application containers can overlap somewhat. For example:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \# \... mounts: \'var/cache_a\':
source: storage source_path: cacheA \'var/cache_b\': source: tmp
source_path: cacheB \'var/cache_c\': source: instance source_path:
cacheC \`\`\` In this case, it does not matter that each mount is of a
different \`source\` type. Each mount is restricted to a subfolder
within \`var\`, and all is well. The following, however, is not allowed
and will result in a failure: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \# \...
mounts: \'var/\': source: storage source_path: cacheA \'var/cache_b\':
source: tmp source_path: cacheB \'var/cache_c\': source: instance
source_path: cacheC \`\`\` The \`storage\` mount type specifically
exists to share data between instances of the same application, whereas
\`tmp\` and \`instance\` are meant to restrict data to build time and
runtime of a single application instance, respectively. These allowances
are not compatible, and will result in an error if pushed. \## Web Use
the \`web\` key to configure the web server running in front of your
app. \| Name \| Type \| Required \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`commands\` \| A \[web commands dictionary\](#web-commands) \| See
\[note\](#required-command) \| The command to launch your app. \| \|
\`upstream\` \| An \[upstream dictionary\](#upstream) \| \| How the
front server connects to your app. \| \| \`locations\` \| A \[locations
dictionary\](#locations) \| \| How the app container responds to
incoming requests. \| See some \[examples of how to configure what\'s
served\](../web/\_index.md). \### Web commands \| Name \| Type \|
Required \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`pre_start\` \| \`string\` \| \| Command run just prior to
\`start\`, which can be useful when you need to run \_per-instance\_
actions. \| \| \`start\` \| \`string\` \| See
\[note\](#required-command) \| The command to launch your app. If it
terminates, it\'s restarted immediately. \| Example: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" stack: \[ \"python@3.9\" \]
web: commands: start: \'uwsgi \--ini conf/server.ini\' \`\`\` This
command runs every time your app is restarted, regardless of whether or
not new code is deployed.

### Note

Never "background" a start process using `&`. That's interpreted as the
command terminating and the supervisor process starts a second copy,
creating an infinite loop until the container crashes. Just run it as
normal and allow the Upsun supervisor to manage it.

\#### Required command On all containers other than PHP, the value for
\`start\` should be treated as required. On PHP containers, it\'s
optional and defaults to starting PHP-FPM (\`/usr/bin/start-php-app\`).
It can also be set explicitly on a PHP container to run a dedicated
process, such as \[React
PHP\](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/platformsh-example-reactphp)
or
\[Amp\](https://github.com/platformsh-examples/platformsh-example-amphp).
See how to set up \[alternate start commands on
PHP\](/languages/php/\_index.md#alternate-start-commands). \### Upstream
\| Name \| Type \| Required \| Description \| Default \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`socket_family\` \| \`tcp\` or \`unix\` \| \| Whether your app
listens on a Unix or TCP socket. \| Defaults to \`tcp\` for all
\[primary runtimes\](#primary-runtime) except PHP; for PHP the default
is \`unix\`. \| \| \`protocol\` \| \`http\` or \`fastcgi\` \| \| Whether
your app receives incoming requests over HTTP or FastCGI. \| Default
varies based on the \[primary runtimes\](#primary-runtime). \| For PHP,
the defaults are configured for PHP-FPM and shouldn\'t need adjustment.
For all other containers, the default for \`protocol\` is \`http\`. The
following example is the default on non-PHP containers: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" stack: \[ \"python@3.9\" \]
web: upstream: socket_family: tcp protocol: http \`\`\` \#### Where to
listen Where to listen depends on your setting for
\`web.upstream.socket_family\` (defaults to \`tcp\`). \|
\`socket_family\` \| Where to listen \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`tcp\` \| The port specified by the \[\`PORT\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables)
\| \| \`unix\` \| The Unix socket file specified by the \[\`SOCKET\`
environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables)
\| If your application isn\'t listening at the same place that the
runtime is sending requests, you see \`502 Bad Gateway\` errors when you
try to connect to your website. \### Locations Each key in the
\`locations\` dictionary is a path on your site with a leading \`/\`.
For \`example.com\`, a \`/\` matches \`example.com/\` and \`/admin\`
matches \`example.com/admin\`. When multiple keys match an incoming
request, the most-specific applies. The following table presents
possible properties for each location: \| Name \| Type \| Default \|
Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`root\` \| \`string\` \| \| The directory to serve static assets for
this location relative to the app\'s root directory (\[see
\`source.root\`\](#source)). Must be an actual directory inside the root
directory. \| \| \`passthru\` \| \`boolean\` or \`string\` \| \`false\`
\| Whether to forward disallowed and missing resources from this
location to the app. A string is a path with a leading \`/\` to the
controller, such as \`/index.php\`.\
\
If your app is in PHP, when setting \`passthru\` to \`true\`, you might
want to set \`scripts\` to \`false\` for enhanced security. This
prevents PHP scripts from being executed from the specified location.
You might also want to set \`allow\` to \`false\` so that not only PHP
scripts can\'t be executed, but their source code also can\'t be
delivered. \| \| \`index\` \| Array of \`string\`s or \`null\` \| \|
Files to consider when serving a request for a directory. When set,
requires access to the files through the \`allow\` or \`rules\` keys. \|
\| \`expires\` \| \`string\` \| \`-1\` \| How long static assets are
cached. The default means no caching. Setting it to a value enables the
\`Cache-Control\` and \`Expires\` headers. Times can be suffixed with
\`ms\` = milliseconds, \`s\` = seconds, \`m\` = minutes, \`h\` = hours,
\`d\` = days, \`w\` = weeks, \`M\` = months/30d, or \`y\` = years/365d.
\| \| \`allow\` \| \`boolean\` \| \`true\` \| Whether to allow serving
files which don\'t match a rule. \| \| \`scripts\` \| \`boolean\` \| \|
Whether to allow scripts to run. Doesn\'t apply to paths specified in
\`passthru\`. Meaningful only on PHP containers. \| \| \`headers\` \| A
headers dictionary \| \| Any additional headers to apply to static
assets, mapping header names to values. Responses from the app aren\'t
affected. \| \| \`request_buffering\` \| A \[request buffering
dictionary\](#request-buffering) \| See below \| Handling for chunked
requests. \| \| \`rules\` \| A \[rules dictionary\](#rules) \| \|
Specific overrides for specific locations. \| \#### Rules The rules
dictionary can override most other keys according to a regular
expression. The key of each item is a regular expression to match paths
exactly. If an incoming request matches the rule, it\'s handled by the
properties under the rule, overriding any conflicting rules from the
rest of the \`locations\` dictionary. Under \`rules\`, you can set all
of the other possible \[\`locations\` properties\](#locations) except
\`root\`, \`index\` and \`request_buffering\`. In the following example,
the \`allow\` key disallows requests for static files anywhere in the
site. This is overridden by a rule that explicitly allows common image
file formats. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\"
stack: \[ \"python@3.9\" \] web: locations: \'/\': \# Handle dynamic
requests root: \'public\' passthru: \'/index.php\' \# Disallow static
files allow: false rules: \# Allow common image files only.
\'\\.(jpe?g\|png\|gif\|svgz?\|css\|js\|map\|ico\|bmp\|eot\|woff2?\|otf\|ttf)\$\':
allow: true \`\`\` \#### Request buffering Request buffering is enabled
by default to handle chunked requests as most app servers don\'t support
them. The following table shows the keys in the \`request_buffering\`
dictionary: \| Name \| Type \| Required \| Default \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`enabled\` \| \`boolean\` \| Yes \| \`true\` \| Whether request
buffering is enabled. \| \| \`max_request_size\` \| \`string\` \| \|
\`250m\` \| The maximum size to allow in one request. \| The default
configuration would look like this: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" stack: \[ \"python@3.9\" \] web: locations: \'/\':
passthru: true request_buffering: enabled: true max_request_size: 250m
\`\`\` \## Workers Workers are exact copies of the code and compilation
output as a \`web\` instance after a \[\`build\` hook\](#hooks). They
use the same container image. Workers can\'t accept public requests and
so are suitable only for background tasks. If they exit, they\'re
automatically restarted. The keys of the \`workers\` definition are the
names of the workers. You can then define how each worker differs from
the \`web\` instance using the \[top-level
properties\](#primary-application-properties). Each worker can differ
from the \`web\` instance in all properties \_except\_ for: - \`crons\`
as cron jobs don\'t run on workers - \`hooks\` as the \`build\` hook
must be the same and the \`deploy\` and \`post_deploy\` hooks don\'t run
on workers. A worker named \`queue\` that was small and had a different
start command could look like this: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" stack: \[ \"python@3.9\" \] workers: queue:
commands: start: \| ./worker.sh \`\`\` Workers require resource
definition using \`upsun resources:set\`, same as application
containers. For more information, see how to \[manage
resources\](/manage-resources.md). \## Access The \`access\` dictionary
has one allowed key: \| Name \| Allowed values \| Default \| Description
\|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`ssh\` \| \`admin\`, \`contributor\`, or \`viewer\` \|
\`contributor\` \| Defines the minimum role required to access app
environments via SSH. \| In the following example, only users with
\`admin\` permissions for the given \[environment
type\](/administration/users.md#environment-type-roles) can access the
deployed environment via SSH: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source:
root: \"/\" stack: \[ \"python@3.9\" \] access: ssh: admin \`\`\` \##
Variables Upsun provides a number of ways to set
\[variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md). Variables set in your
app configuration have the lowest precedence, meaning they\'re
overridden by any conflicting values provided elsewhere. All variables
set in your app configuration must have a prefix. Some \[prefixes have
specific
meanings\](/development/variables/\_index.md#variable-prefixes).
Variables with the prefix \`env\` are available as a separate
environment variable. All other variables are available in the
\[\`PLATFORM_VARIABLES\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
The following example sets two variables: - A variable named
\`env:AUTHOR\` with the value \`Juan\` that\'s available in the
environment as \`AUTHOR\` - A variable named
\`d8config:system.site:name\` with the value \`My site rocks\` that\'s
available in the \`PLATFORM_VARIABLES\` environment variable \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" stack: \[ \"python@3.9\" \]
variables: env: AUTHOR: \'Juan\' d8config: \"system.site:name\": \'My
site rocks\' \`\`\` You can also define and access more \[complex
values\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#access-complex-values).
\## Firewall Set limits in outbound traffic from your app with no impact
on inbound requests. The \`outbound\` key is required and contains one
or more rules. The rules define what traffic is allowed; anything
unspecified is blocked. Each rule has the following properties where at
least one is required and \`ips\` and \`domains\` can\'t be specified
together: \| Name \| Type \| Default \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`ips\` \| Array of \`string\`s \| \`\[\"0.0.0.0/0\"\]\` \| IP
addresses in \[CIDR
notation\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing).
See a \[CIDR format converter\](https://www.ipaddressguide.com/cidr). \|
\| \`domains\` \| Array of \`string\`s \| \| \[Fully qualified domain
names\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name) to
specify specific destinations by hostname. \| \| \`ports\` \| Array of
\`integer\`s \| \| Ports from 1 to 65535 that are allowed. If any ports
are specified, all unspecified ports are blocked. If no ports are
specified, all ports are allowed. Port \`25\`, the SMTP port for sending
email, is always blocked. \| The default settings would look like this:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" stack: \[
\"python@3.9\" \] firewall: outbound: - ips: \[ \"0.0.0.0/0\" \] \`\`\`
\### Support for rules Where outbound rules for firewalls are supported
in all environments. \### Multiple rules Multiple firewall rules can be
specified. In such cases, a given outbound request is allowed if it
matches \_any\_ of the defined rules. So in the following example
requests to any IP on port 80 are allowed and requests to 1.2.3.4 on
either port 80 or 443 are allowed: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" stack: \[ \"python@3.9\" \] firewall: outbound: -
ips: \[ \"1.2.3.4/32\" \] ports: \[ 443 \] - ports: \[ 80 \] \`\`\` \###
Outbound traffic to CDNs Be aware that many services are behind a
content delivery network (CDN). For most CDNs, routing is done via
domain name, not IP address, so thousands of domain names may share the
same public IP addresses at the CDN. If you allow the IP address of a
CDN, you are usually allowing many or all of the other customers hosted
behind that CDN. \### Outbound traffic by domain You can filter outbound
traffic by domain. Using domains in your rules rather than IP addresses
is generally more specific and secure. For example, if you use an IP
address for a service with a CDN, you have to allow the IP address for
the CDN. This means that you allow potentially hundreds or thousands of
other servers also using the CDN. An example rule filtering by domain:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" stack: \[
\"python@3.9\" \] firewall: outbound: - protocol: tcp domains: \[
\"api.stripe.com\", \"api.twilio.com\" \] ports: \[ 80, 443 \] -
protocol: tcp ips: \[ \"1.2.3.4/29\",\"2.3.4.5\" \] ports: \[ 22 \]
\`\`\` \#### Determine which domains to allow To determine which domains
to include in your filtering rules, find the domains your site has
requested the DNS to resolve. Run the following command to parse your
server's \`dns.log\` file and display all Fully Qualified Domain Names
that have been requested: \`\`\`bash awk \'/query\\\[\[\^P\]\\\]/ {
print \$6 \| \"sort -u\" }\' /var/log/dns.log \`\`\` The output includes
all DNS requests that were made, including those blocked by your
filtering rules. It doesn\'t include any requests made using an IP
address. Example output: \`\`\`bash facebook.com fastly.com upsun.com
www.google.com www.upsun.com \`\`\` \## Hooks There are three different
hooks that run as part of the process of building and deploying your
app. These are places where you can run custom scripts. They are: the
\`build\` hook, the \`deploy\` hook, and the \`post_deploy\` hook. Only
the \`build\` hook is run for \[worker instances\](#workers), while
\[web instances\](#web) run all three. The process is ordered as: 1.
Variables accessible at build time become available. 1. The \`build\`
hook is run. 1. The file system is changed to read only (except for any
\[mounts\](#mounts)). 1. The app container starts. Variables accessible
at runtime and services become available. 1. The \`deploy\` hook is
run. 1. The app container begins accepting requests. 1. The
\`post_deploy\` hook is run. Note that if an environment changes by no
code changes, only the last step is run. If you want the entire process
to run, see how to \[manually trigger
builds\](/development/troubleshoot.md#manually-trigger-builds). \###
Writable directories during build During the \`build\` hook, there are
three writeable directories: - \`PLATFORM_APP_DIR\`: Where your code is
checked out and the working directory when the \`build\` hook starts.
Becomes the app that gets deployed. - \`PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR\`: Persists
between builds, but isn\'t deployed. Shared by all builds on all
branches. - \`/tmp\`: Isn\'t deployed and is wiped between each build.
Note that \`PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR\` is mapped to \`/tmp\` and together they
offer about 8GB of free space. \### Hook failure Each hook is executed
as a single script, so they\'re considered to have failed only if the
final command in them fails. To cause them to fail on the first failed
command, add \`set -e\` to the beginning of the hook. If a \`build\`
hook fails for any reason, the build is aborted and the deploy doesn\'t
happen. Note that this only works for \`build\` hooks \-- if other hooks
fail, the app is still deployed. \#### Automated testing It's preferable
that you set up and run automated tests in a dedicated CI/CD tool.
Relying on Upsun hooks for such tasks can prove difficult. During the
\`build\` hook, you can halt the deployment on a test failure but the
following limitations apply: - Access to services such as databases,
Redis, Vault KMS, and even writable mounts is disabled. So any testing
that relies on it is sure to fail. - If you haven't made changes to your
app, an existing build image is reused and the build hook isn't run. -
Test results are written into your app container, so they might get
exposed to a third party. During the \`deploy\` hook, you can access
services but \*\*you can't halt the deployment based on a test
failure\*\*. Note that there are other downsides: - Your app container
is read-only during the deploy hook, so if your tests need to write
reports and other information, you need to create a file mount for
them. - Your app can only be deployed once the deploy hook has been
completed. Therefore, running automated testing via the deploy hook
generates slower deployments. - Your environment isn't available
externally during the deploy hook. Unit and integration testing might
work without the environment being available, but you can't typically
perform end-to-end testing until after the environment is up and
available. \## Crons The keys of the \`crons\` definition are the names
of the cron jobs. The names must be unique. If an application defines
both a \`web\` instance and \`worker\` instances, cron jobs run only on
the \`web\` instance. See how to \[get cron
logs\](/increase-observability/logs/access-logs.md#container-logs). The
following table shows the properties for each job: \| Name \| Type \|
Required \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`spec\` \| \`string\` \| Yes \| The \[cron
specification\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron#Cron_expression). To
prevent competition for resources that might hurt performance, use \`H\`
in definitions to indicate an unspecified but invariant time. For
example, instead of using \`0 \* \* \* \*\` to indicate the cron job
runs at the start of every hour, you can use \`H \* \* \* \*\` to
indicate it runs every hour, but not necessarily at the start. This
prevents multiple cron jobs from trying to start at the same time. \| \|
\`commands\` \| A \[cron commands dictionary\](#cron-commands) \| Yes \|
A definition of what commands to run when starting and stopping the cron
job. \| \| \`shutdown_timeout\` \| \`integer\` \| No \| When a cron is
canceled, this represents the number of seconds after which a
\`SIGKILL\` signal is sent to the process to force terminate it. The
default is \`10\` seconds. \| \| \`timeout\` \| \`integer\` \| No \| The
maximum amount of time a cron can run before it\'s terminated. Defaults
to the maximum allowed value of \`86400\` seconds (24 hours). \| Note
that you can \[cancel pending or running
crons\](/environments/cancel-activity.md). \### Cron commands \| Name \|
Type \| Required \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`start\` \| \`string\` \| Yes \| The command that\'s run. It\'s run
in \[Dash\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Almquist_shell). \| \|
\`stop\` \| \`string\` \| No \| The command that\'s issued to give the
cron command a chance to shutdown gracefully, such as to finish an
active item in a list of tasks. Issued when a cron task is interrupted
by a user through the CLI or Console. If not specified, a \`SIGTERM\`
signal is sent to the process. \| \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" stack: \[ \"nodejs@22\" \] crons: mycommand: spec:
\'H \* \* \* \*\' commands: start: sleep 60 && echo sleep-60-finished &&
date stop: killall sleep shutdown_timeout: 18 \`\`\` In this example
configuration, the \[cron specification\](#crons) uses the \`H\` syntax.
\### Example cron jobs

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Drupal
-   Ruby on Rails
-   Laravel
-   Symfony

.upsun/config.yaml
`` applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" stack: [ "php@8.4" ] crons: # Run Drupal's cron tasks every 19 minutes. drupal: spec: '*/19 * * * *' commands: start: 'cd web ; drush core-cron' # But also run pending queue tasks every 7 minutes. # Use an odd number to avoid running at the same time as the `drupal` cron. drush-queue: spec: '*/7 * * * *' commands: start: 'cd web ; drush queue-run aggregator_feeds' ``
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" stack: [ "ruby@3.3" ] crons: # Execute a rake script every 19 minutes. ruby: spec: '*/19 * * * *' commands: start: 'bundle exec rake some:task'`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" stack: [ "php@8.4" ] crons: # Run Laravel's scheduler every 5 minutes. scheduler: spec: '*/5 * * * *' commands: start: 'php artisan schedule:run'`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "/" stack: [ "php@8.4" ] crons: # Take a backup of the environment every day at 5:00 AM. snapshot: spec: 0 5 * * * commands: start: | # Only run for the production environment, aka main branch if [ "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" = "production" ]; then croncape symfony ... fi `
\### Conditional crons If you want to set up customized cron schedules
depending on the environment type, define conditional crons. To do so,
use a configuration similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" stack: \[ \"php@8.4\" \] crons:
update: spec: \'0 0 \* \* \*\' commands: start: \| if \[
\"\$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\" = production \]; then upsun
backup:create \--yes \--no-wait upsun source-operation:run update
\--no-wait \--yes fi \`\`\` \### Cron job timing The minimum time
between cron jobs being triggered is 5 minutes. For each app container,
only one cron job can run at a time. If a new job is triggered while
another is running, the new job is paused until the other completes. To
minimize conflicts, a random offset is applied to all triggers. The
offset is a random number of seconds up to 20 minutes or the cron
frequency, whichever is smaller. Crons are also paused while activities
such as \[backups\](/environments/backup) are running. The crons are
queued to run after the other activity finishes. To run cron jobs in a
timezone other than UTC, set the \[timezone
property\](#primary-application-properties). \### Paused crons \[Preview
environments\](/glossary.md#preview-environment) are often used for a
limited time and then abandoned. While it\'s useful for environments
under active development to have scheduled tasks, unused environments
don\'t need to run cron jobs. To minimize unnecessary resource use,
crons on environments with no deployments are paused. This affects all
preview environments, \_and\_ production environment that do not yet
have a domain attached to them. Such environments with deployments
within 14 days have crons with the status \`running\`. If there haven\'t
been any deployments within 14 days, the status is \`paused\`. You can
see the status in the Console or using the CLI by running \`upsun
environment:info\` and looking under \`deployment_state\`. \####
Restarting paused crons If the crons on your preview environment are
paused but you\'re still using them, you can push changes to the
environment or redeploy it. To restart crons without changing anything:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  In the Console, navigate to your project.
2.  Open the environment where you'd like the crons to run.
3.  Click `Redeploy` next to the cron status of `Paused`.

Run the following command:

`upsun redeploy` \### Sizing hints The following table shows the
properties that can be set in \`sizing_hints\`: \| Name \| Type \|
Default \| Minimum \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`request_memory\` \| \`integer\` \| 45 \| 10 \| The average memory
consumed per request in MB. \| \| \`reserved_memory\` \| \`integer\` \|
70 \| 70 \| The amount of memory reserved in MB. \| See more about
\[PHP-FPM workers and sizing\](/languages/php/fpm.md). \## Source The
following table shows the properties that can be set in \`source\`: \|
Name \| Type \| Required \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`operations\` \| An operations dictionary \| \| Operations that can
be applied to the source code. See \[source
operations\](../source-operations.md) \| \| \`root\` \| \`string\` \| \|
The path where the app code lives. Defaults to the root project
directory. Useful for \[multi-app setups\](../multi-app/\_index.md). \|
\## Container profile By default, Upsun allocates a container profile to
each app and service depending on the range of resources it's expected
to need. Each container profile gives you access to a specific list of
CPU and RAM combinations. Using the Upsun CLI or Console, you can then
pick a CPU and RAM combination for each of your apps and services. -
\[Container profile types and
resources\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources#advanced-container-profiles) -
\[Default container
profiles\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources#default-container-profiles)
for runtime and service containers - \[Customize resources using the
\`container_profile\`
key\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources#adjust-a-container-profile) \##
Additional hosts If you\'re using a private network with specific IP
addresses you need to connect to, you might want to map those addresses
to hostnames to better remember and organize them. In such cases, you
can add a map of those IP addresses to whatever hostnames you like. Then
when your app tries to access the hostname, it\'s sent to the proper IP
address. So in the following example, if your app tries to access
\`api.example.com\`, it\'s sent to \`192.0.2.23\`. \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" stack: \[ \"php@8.4\" \]
additional_hosts: api.example.com: \"192.0.2.23\" web.example.com:
\"203.0.113.42\" \`\`\` This is equivalent to adding the mapping to the
\`/etc/hosts\` file for the container. #PHP-FPM sizing

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

PHP-FPM helps improve your app\'s performance by maintaining pools of
workers that can process PHP requests. This is particularly useful when
your app needs to handle a high number of simultaneous requests. By
default, Upsun automatically sets a maximum number of PHP-FPM workers
for your app. This number is calculated based on three parameters: - The
container memory: the amount of memory you can allot for PHP processing
depending on \[your defined application
resources\](/manage-resources.md). - The request memory: the amount of
memory an average PHP request is expected to require. - The reserved
memory: the amount of memory you need to reserve for tasks that aren\'t
related to requests. The number is calculated as follows: \![The sum of
container memory minus reserved memory divided by request
memory\](/images/php/PHP-FPM-Workers-Calculation.png \"0.2\") Note that
when the resulting number is a decimal, it\'s rounded up to set the
maximum number of workers. Also, the minimum number of PHP-FPM workers
is 2. To adjust the maximum number of PHP-FPM workers depending on your
app\'s needs, follow the instructions on this page. \## Before you begin
You need: - An up-and-running web app in PHP, complete with
\[PHP-FPM\](https://www.php.net/manual/en/install.fpm.php) - The \[Upsun
CLI\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md) Note that the memory settings
mentioned on this page are different from the \[\`memory_limit\` PHP
setting\](./\_index.md). The \`memory_limit\` setting is the maximum
amount of memory a single PHP process can use before it\'s automatically
terminated. \## 1. Estimate the optimal request memory for your app To
determine what the optimal request memory is for your app, you can refer
to your PHP access logs. Run a command similar to: \`\`\`bash upsun log
\--lines 5000 php.access \| awk \'{print \$6}\' \| sort -n \| uniq -c
\`\`\` This command takes into account the last 5,000 requests that
reached PHP-FPM. You can adjust this number depending on the amount of
traffic on your site. In the output, you can see how many requests used
how much memory, in KB. For example: \`\`\`bash 2654 2048 431 4096 584
8192 889 10240 374 12288 68 46384 \`\`\` The output shows that: - The
majority of requests peaked at 2,048 KB of memory. - Most other requests
used up to around 10 MB of memory. - A few requests used up to around 12
MB of memory. - Only 68 requests peaked at around 46 MB of memory. In
this situation, you might want to be cautious and \[set your request
memory\](#2-adjust-the-maximum-number-of-php-fpm-workers) to 12 MB.
Setting a lower request memory presents a risk of allowing more
concurrent requests. This can result in memory swapping and latencies.
\## 2. Adjust the maximum number of PHP-FPM workers By default, the
request memory is set to 45 MB and the reserved memory is set to 70 MB.
These values allow most programs to run, but you can amend them to fit
your needs. To do so, adjust your \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md). Under \`runtime\` in the
\[\`sizing_hints\`
setting\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#sizing-hints),
set the values for \`reserved_memory\` and \`request_memory\`. For
example, if you estimate your \[optimal request
memory\](#1-estimate-the-optimal-request-memory-for-your-app) to be 110
MB and your reserved memory to be 80 MB, you can use: \<\-\--\>
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' runtime:
sizing_hints: request_memory: 110 reserved_memory: 80 \`\`\` Note that
the minimum value for the \`request_memory\` key is 10 MB and the
minimum value for the \`reserved_memory\` key is 70 MB. If you set lower
values, they\'re automatically overridden with those minimums. To check
the maximum number of PHP-FPM workers available to your app, run the
following command, where \`children\` refers to PHP-FPM workers:
\`\`\`bash upsun ssh \"grep -e \'\^pm.max_children\'
/etc/php/\*/fpm/php-fpm.conf\" \`\`\` You get output similar to the
following: \`\`\`bash pm.max_children = 5 \`\`\` #Setup

### Got code?

In order to follow along with this guide, you need a local project.
While the guide has been written to accommodate the following stacks, it
is not limited to just those listed and are here only as examples.

JavaScript/Node.js

-   Express installation guide
-   Next.js installation guide
-   Strapi installation guide

PHP

-   [Laravel installation
    guide](https://laravel.com/docs/10.x#creating-a-laravel-project)
-   Symfony installation guide

Python

-   Flask installation guide
-   Django installation guide

\## Before you begin You need: - \[Git\](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
Git is the primary tool to manage everything your app needs to run. Push
commits to deploy changes and control configuration through YAML files.
These files describe your infrastructure, making it transparent and
version-controlled. - A Upsun account. If you don\'t already have one,
\[register for a trial account\](https://auth.upsun.com/register). You
can sign up with an email address or an existing GitHub, Bitbucket, or
Google account. If you choose one of these accounts, you can set a
password for your Upsun account later. - The \[Upsun
CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md). This lets you interact with your
project from the command line. You can also do most things through the
\[Web Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md).

### Trials

When you create your first organization on Upsun, you are also
activating your trial for that organization. Get [more information on
trials](/glossary.html#trial).

\## Initialize your Git repository A Git repository is required for
Upsun projects. If you haven\'t already done so, initialize a Git
repository for your codebase, and commit your files: \`\`\`bash {} git
init git add . git commit -m \"Initial commit.\" \`\`\` This guide
assumes that your repository\'s default branch is \`main\`. Your Git
configuration may result in different default branches (like
\`master\`), so please run \`git branch -M main\` before proceeding.

### Don't commit dependencies

Whether you're migrating your own project, or testing Upsun with a
starter project, **never commit your app's dependencies**. Make sure you
ignore directories containing dependencies by updating your `.gitignore`
file.

`# JavaScript/Node.js echo "node_modules" >> .gitignore # PHP echo "vendor" >> .gitignore # Python echo "env" >> .gitignore git add .gitignore && git commit -m "Update .gitignore to ignore deps."`

Back

Create a project

#Source operations On Upsun, you can run automated code updates through
a feature called \*\*source operations\*\*. Defined in your \[app
configuration\](./\_index.md), source operations let you specify
commands that can commit changes to your project\'s repository when
called. For example, you can set up a source operation to
\[automatically update your application
dependencies\](/learn/tutorials/dependency-updates.md), \[update a site
from an upstream
repository\](#update-a-site-from-an-upstream-repository-or-template), or
\[revert to the last commit\](#revert-to-the-last-commit) pushed to your
Git repository. To run your source operations, you can use the \[Upsun
CLI\](../administration/cli/\_index.md) or the
\[Console\](https://console.platform.sh). If you want to run your source
operations and update your code automatically, you can also define
\[cron jobs\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#crons).
\## How source operations work When you trigger a source operation, the
following happens in order: 1. The current environment HEAD commit is
checked out in Git. It doesn\'t have any remotes or tags defined in the
project. It only has the current environment branch. 2. Sequentially,
for each app that has an operation bearing \[the
name\](#define-a-source-operation) of the triggered source operation in
its configuration, the operation command is run in the app container.
The container isn\'t part of the environment\'s runtime cluster and
doesn\'t require that the environment is running. The environment has
all of the variables normally available during the build phase. These
may be optionally overridden by the variables specified when the
operation is run. 3. If any new commits were created, they\'re pushed to
the repository and the normal build process is triggered. If multiple
apps in a single project both result in a new commit, there are two
distinct commits in the Git history but only a single new build process.
\## Define a source operation A source operation requires two things: -
A name that must be unique within the application. The name is the key
of the block defined under \`source.operations\` in your \[app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#source). -
A \`command\` that defines what\'s run when the operation is triggered.
The syntax is similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: type: nodejs:22 source: root: \"/\" operations:
SOURCE_OPERATION_NAME: command: COMMAND \`\`\` For example, to update a
file from a remote location, you could define an operation like this:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: nodejs:22 source: root: \"/\"
operations: update-file: command: \| set -e curl -O
https://example.com/myfile.txt git add myfile.txt git commit -m \"Update
remote file\" \`\`\` The name of the source operation in this case is
\`update-file\`. For more possibilities, see other \[source operation
examples\](#source-operation-examples). \## Run a source operation

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to the environment where you want to run the operation.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDYuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDYuNSAxMy41IDUuODI4NDMgMTMuNSA1QzEzLjUgNC4xNzE1NyAxMi44Mjg0IDMuNSAxMiAzLjVDMTEuMTcxNiAzLjUgMTAuNSA0LjE3MTU3IDEwLjUgNUMxMC41IDUuODI4NDMgMTEuMTcxNiA2LjUgMTIgNi41WiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTIgMTMuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTMuNSAxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTJDMTMuNSAxMS4xNzE2IDEyLjgyODQgMTAuNSAxMiAxMC41QzExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMC41IDExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMkMxMC41IDEyLjgyODQgMTEuMTcxNiAxMy41IDEyIDEzLjVaIiAvPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    **More**.
3.  Click **Run source operation**.
4.  Select the operation you want to run.
5.  Optional: Add the
    [variables](#use-variables-in-your-source-operations) required by
    your source operation.
6.  Click **Run**.

Run the following command:

`upsun source-operation:run SOURCE_OPERATION_NAME`

Replace SOURCE_OPERATION_NAME with the name of your operation, such as
`update-file` in the [example above](#define-a-source-operation).

After running a source operation, to apply the changes to your local
development environment run the \`git pull\` command. Note that you can
\[cancel pending or running source
operations\](../environments/cancel-activity.md). \## Use variables in
your source operations You can add
\[variables\](../development/variables/\_index.md) to the environment of
the source operation. Use the \`env:\` prefix to expose each of those
variables as a Unix environment variable. In this way, they\'re
referenced by the source operation and interpreted the same way as any
other variable set in your project. For example, you might want to have
a \`FILE\` variable available with the value \`example.txt\` to pass to
a source operation similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: type: nodejs:22 source: root: \"/\" operations: update-file:
command: \| set -e curl -O https://example.com/\$FILE git add \$FILE git
commit -m \"Update remote file\" \`\`\` Follow these steps to run the
source operation:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Navigate to the environment where you want to run the operation.

2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTIgNi41QzEyLjgyODQgNi41IDEzLjUgNS44Mjg0MyAxMy41IDVDMTMuNSA0LjE3MTU3IDEyLjgyODQgMy41IDEyIDMuNUMxMS4xNzE2IDMuNSAxMC41IDQuMTcxNTcgMTAuNSA1QzEwLjUgNS44Mjg0MyAxMS4xNzE2IDYuNSAxMiA2LjVaIiAvPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDEzLjVDMTIuODI4NCAxMy41IDEzLjUgMTIuODI4NCAxMy41IDEyQzEzLjUgMTEuMTcxNiAxMi44Mjg0IDEwLjUgMTIgMTAuNUMxMS4xNzE2IDEwLjUgMTAuNSAxMS4xNzE2IDEwLjUgMTJDMTAuNSAxMi44Mjg0IDExLjE3MTYgMTMuNSAxMiAxMy41WiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    **More**.

3.  Click **Run source operation**.

4.  Select the operation you want to run.

5.  Under **Add/override variables**, put `FILE` as the **Variable
    name** and `example.txt` as the **Value**. The variable is
    automatically prefixed with `env:`.

6.  Click **Run**.

`upsun source-operation:run update-file --variable env:FILE="example.txt"`
\## Source integrations If your project is using a \[source
integration\](../integrations/source/\_index.md), any new commits
resulting from a source operation are first pushed to your external Git
repository. Then the source integration pushes those commits to Upsun
and redeploys the environment. When using a source integration, you
can\'t run source operations on environments created from pull or merge
requests created on the external repository. If you try running a source
operation on a non-supported environment, you see the following error:
\`\`\`text \[ApiFeatureMissingException\] This project doesn\'t support
source operations. \`\`\` \## Automated source operations using a cron
job You can use a cron to automatically run your source operations. Note
that it's best not to run source operations on your production
environment, but rather on a dedicated environment where you can test
changes. Make sure you have the \[Upsun
CLI\](../administration/cli/\_index.md) installed and \[an API
token\](../administration/cli/api-tokens.md#2-create-an-api-token) so
you can run a cron job in your app container. 1. Set your API token as a
top-level environment variable:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   From the CLI
-   From the Console

Run the following command:

`upsun variable:create --environment main --level environment --prefix 'env' --name UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN --sensitive true --value 'YOUR_UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN' --inheritable false --visible-build true --json false --enabled true --visible-runtime true`

1.  Open the environment where you want to add the variable.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
3.  Click **Variables**.
4.  Click **+ Add variable**.
5.  In the **Variable name** field, enter `env:UPSUN_CLI_TOKEN`.
6.  In the **Value** field, enter your API token.
7.  Make sure the **Available at runtime** and **Sensitive variable**
    options are selected.
8.  Click **Add variable**.

### Note

Once you add the API token as an environment variable, anyone with SSH
access can read its value. Make sure you carefully check your [user
access on this
project](/administration/users.html#manage-project-users).

2\. Add a build hook to your app configuration to install the CLI as
part of the build process: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: hooks:
build: \| set -e echo \"Installing Upsun CLI\" curl -fsSL
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/cli/main/installer.sh \|
bash echo \"Testing Upsun CLI\" upsun \`\`\` 3. Then, to configure a
cron job to automatically run a source operation once a day, use a
configuration similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: type: nodejs:22 source: root: \"/\" operations: update-file:
command: \| set -e curl -O https://example.com/\$FILE git add \$FILE git
commit -m \"Update remote file\" crons: update: \# Run the code below
every day at midnight. spec: \'0 0 \* \* \*\' commands: start: \| set -e
upsun sync -e development code data \--no-wait \--yes upsun
source-operation:run update-file \--no-wait \--yes \`\`\` The example
above synchronizes the \`development\` environment with its parent and
then runs the \`update-file\` source operation defined
\[previously\](#define-a-source-operation). \## Source operation
examples \### Update your application dependencies You can set up a
source operation and a cron job to \[automate your dependency
updates\](/learn/tutorials/dependency-updates.md). \### Update a site
from an upstream repository or template The following source operation
syncronizes your branch with an upstream Git repository. 1. \[Add a
project-level
variable\](../development/variables/set-variables.md#create-project-variables)
named \`env:UPSTREAM_REMOTE\` with the Git URL of the upstream
repository. That makes that repository available as a Unix environment
variable in all environments, including in the source operation\'s
environment. - Variable name: \`env:UPSTREAM_REMOTE\` - Variable example
value: \`https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs\` 2. In your app
configuration, define a source operation to fetch from that upstream
repository: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: nodejs:22 source:
root: \"/\" operations: upstream-update: command: \| set -e git remote
add upstream \$UPSTREAM_REMOTE git fetch \--all git merge upstream/main
\`\`\` 3. Now every time you run the \`upstream-update\` operation on a
given branch, the branch fetches all changes from the upstream git
repository and then merges the latest changes from the default branch in
the upstream repository. If there's a conflict merging from the upstream
repository, the source operation fails and doesn\'t update from the
upstream repository. Run the \`upstream-update\` operation on a preview
environment rather than directly on Production. \### Revert to the last
commit The following source operation reverts the last commit pushed to
the Git repository. This can be useful if you didn\'t properly test the
changes of another operation and you need to quickly revert to the
previous state. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: nodejs:22
source: root: \"/\" operations: revert: command: \| git reset \--hard
HEAD\~ \`\`\` Now every time you run the \`revert\` operation on a given
branch, the operation reverts to the last commit pushed to that branch.
\### Update Drupal Core The following source operation uses Composer to
update Drupal Core: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: php:8.4
source: root: \"/\" operations: update-drupal-core: command: \| set -e
composer update drupal/core \--with-dependencies git add composer.lock
git commit -m \"Automated Drupal Core update.\" \`\`\`
\`\--with-dependencies\` is used to also update Drupal Core
dependencies. Read more on how to \[update Drupal Core via Composer on
Drupal.org\](https://www.drupal.org/docs/updating-drupal/updating-drupal-core-via-composer).
Now every time you run the \`update-drupal-core\` operation, it updates
Drupal Core. \### Download a Drupal extension The following source
operation downloads a Drupal extension. You can define the Drupal
extension by setting an \`EXTENSION\` variable or \[overriding
it\](#use-variables-in-your-source-operations) when running the source
operation. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: php:8.4 source:
root: \"/\" operations: download-drupal-extension: command: \| set -e
composer require \$EXTENSION git add composer.json git commit -am
\"Automated install of: \$EXTENSION via Composer.\" \`\`\` Now every
time you run the \`download-drupal-extension\` operation, it downloads
the defined extension. If it\'s a new extension, after the source
operation finishes, you need to enable the new extension via the Drupal
management interface or using Drush. \### Update Git submodules The
following source operation updates all Git submodules recursively:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: php:8.4 source: root: \"/\"
operations: rebuild: command: \| set -e git submodule update \--init
\--recursive git submodule update \--remote \--checkout SHA=\$(git
submodule \| awk -F\' \' \'{print \$1}\' \| sed -s \'s/+//g\') echo -n
\"\$SHA\" \> .sha git add uppler .sha git commit -m \"Updating submodule
to commit \'\$SHA\'\" \`\`\` Now every time you run the \`rebuild\`
operation, it updates the Git submodules. #Understanding application
observablity Multiple application observability features are available
for your Upsun projects. A full access to
\[Blackfire\](https://www.blackfire.io/) is bundled with all your PHP
and Python projects. The continuous profiling of your NodeJS, Go, Ruby
and Rust applications is available directly from the Console under the
\`Profiling\` tab of your environments. \## Blackfire: Deterministic
observability for PHP and Python Blackfire has a \*\*deterministic\*\*
approach for PHP and Python, meaning it collects an extensive range of
metrics for every instrumented request or script. The quantity of data
and metrics collected differ for every layer of data Blackfire collects.
The way scripts or requests are chosen to be instrumented also depends
on the data layer.
\[Profiles\](https://blackfire.io/docs/profiling-cookbooks/index) are
manually triggered by a Blackfire user, or automatically triggered by
\[Blackfire builds\](https://blackfire.io/docs/builds-cookbooks/index),
the synthetic monitoring feature that evaluates the performance of
critical user journeys. Meanwhile, monitoring traces and extended traces
are based on the sample rate, which is the percentage of requests that
are monitored. In that matter, \[Blackfire
monitoring\](https://blackfire.io/docs/monitoring-cookbooks/index)
offers a mix of two approaches: - a probabilistic one on how requests
are selected to be instrumented - a deterministic one on how they are
monitored, with the instrumentation starting at the very beginning of
the request and ending with it A \[blog
post\](https://blog.blackfire.io/understanding-monitoring-traces-extended-traces-and-profiles.html)
provides all the details on the differences and complementarity between
Blackfire\'s monitoring traces, extended traces, and profiles. \##
Continuous Profiling: Probabilistic observability Probabilistic
profiling involves capturing data intermittently. It collects
information at defined intervals, logging functions or services
activated by any ongoing request or script. This approach provides a
more comprehensive view of your application's performance over time, but
certain event nuances may be overlooked due to the frequency of
sampling. Comparing deterministic to probabilistic profiling is akin to
contrasting medical imaging devices. Asserting that an fMRI is
unequivocally better than a PET scan or ultrasound is a misplaced
judgment; each tool has its specific diagnostic purpose. You might not
know all the details about a specific script. But you will have a good
overview of everything happening at a specific time. Information on
shorter spans starting and ending between two consecutive ticks won't be
collected. \## Pros and cons Both approaches have their strengths and
weaknesses. One is not better than the other. It all depends on the
instrumented languages and your understanding of the data. -
Deterministic profiling: Its strength lies in precision and facilitating
meticulous script analysis. But it's resource-intensive, leading to
considerable overhead and potential data overload, making analysis
potentially tedious. - Probabilistic profiling: Lightweight and
scalable, tailored for holistic application oversight. However, its
periodic snapshots might miss rapid function calls, yielding a
not-so-perfect application map. Deterministic and probabilistic
profiling each hold value within the development process. The former
delivers a thorough and detailed view, while the latter offers a wider,
more adaptable perspective. Developers may choose one or even combine
both approaches based on the project's specifics and the issues faced.
#Access your site Once you have an environment running, you can view it
in a web browser. To find which URLs you can use to access your site,
follow these steps:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Select the project whose URLs you want to find.
2.  From the **Environment** menu, select an environment.
3.  Click **URLs**.

Copy and paste any of these URLs into a web browser and access your
site.

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun url`

2.  Select the URL to open in a browser.

For more information about URLs in your project and how you can control
access to your web applications, see how to \[define
routes\](../define-routes/). #Runtime operations Runtime operations
allow you to trigger one-off commands or scripts on your project.
Similar to
\[crons\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#crons),
they run in the app container but not on a specific schedule. You can
\[define runtime operations\](#define-a-runtime-operation) in your \[app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md) and
\[trigger them\](#run-a-runtime-operation) at any time through the Upsun
CLI. For example, if you have a static website, you may want to set up a
runtime operation to occasionally fetch content from a backend system
without having to rebuild your whole app. \## Define a runtime operation
To define a runtime operation, add a configuration similar to the
following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\"
operations: RUNTIME_OPERATION_NAME: role: USER_ROLE commands: start:
COMMAND \`\`\` When you define a runtime operation, you can specify
which users can trigger it according to their user \`role\`: -
\`viewer\` - \`contributor\` - \`admin\` If you don\'t set the \`role\`
option when configuring your runtime operation, by default all users
with the \`contributor\` role can trigger it. For example, to allow
admin users to clear the cache of a Drupal site, you could define an
operation like the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source:
root: \"/\" operations: clear-rebuild: role: admin commands: start:
drush cache:rebuild \`\`\` The name of the runtime operation in this
case is \`clear-rebuild\`. For more possibilities, see other \[runtime
operation examples\](#runtime-operation-examples). \## Run a runtime
operation

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

First, make sure that you have [defined a runtime
operation](#define-a-runtime-operation). Then:

1.  Navigate to the environment where you want to run the operation.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTIgNi41QzEyLjgyODQgNi41IDEzLjUgNS44Mjg0MyAxMy41IDVDMTMuNSA0LjE3MTU3IDEyLjgyODQgMy41IDEyIDMuNUMxMS4xNzE2IDMuNSAxMC41IDQuMTcxNTcgMTAuNSA1QzEwLjUgNS44Mjg0MyAxMS4xNzE2IDYuNSAxMiA2LjVaIiAvPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDEzLjVDMTIuODI4NCAxMy41IDEzLjUgMTIuODI4NCAxMy41IDEyQzEzLjUgMTEuMTcxNiAxMi44Mjg0IDEwLjUgMTIgMTAuNUMxMS4xNzE2IDEwLjUgMTAuNSAxMS4xNzE2IDEwLjUgMTJDMTAuNSAxMi44Mjg0IDExLjE3MTYgMTMuNSAxMiAxMy41WiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    **More**.
3.  Click **Run runtime operation**.
4.  Select the operation you want to run.
5.  Click **Run**.

A runtime operation can be triggered through the Upsun CLI once it has
been [defined](#define-a-runtime-operation).

Run the following command:

`upsun operation:run RUNTIME_OPERATION_NAME --project PROJECT_ID --environment ENVIRONMENT_NAME`

You can only trigger a runtime operation if you have permission to do
so. Permissions are granted through the `role` option specified in the
[runtime operation configuration](#define-a-runtime-operation). This can
only be done if a [runtime operation has been
defined](#define-a-runtime-operation).

For example, to trigger the runtime operation [defined
previously](#define-a-runtime-operation), you could run the following
command:

`upsun operation:run clear-rebuild --project PROJECT_ID --environment ENVIRONMENT_NAME`
\## List your runtime operations To list all the runtime operations
available on an environment, run the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun
operation:list \--project PROJECT_ID \--environment ENVIRONMENT_NAME
\`\`\` \## Runtime operation examples \### Build your app when using a
static site generator During every Upsun deployment, a standard
\[\`build\` step\](/learn/overview/build-deploy.md#the-build) is run.
When you use a static site generator like Gatsby or Next.js with a
headless backend you need to run a second \`build\` step to get your app
ready for production. This is because, as its framework is being built,
your frontend needs to pull content-related data from your backend's API
(to generate all the static HTML pages your site is to serve). To
accomplish this on Upsun, where each app goes through a build-deploy
pipeline in parallel, your frontend's build must be delayed \_until
after\_ your backend has fully deployed. It\'s often delayed up until
the \[\`post_deploy\`
hook\](../create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#post-deploy-hook) stage,
when the filesystem is read-only. You can use a runtime operation to
trigger the second \`build\` step after the initial deployment of your
app or after a redeployment. You can also trigger it when you need to
fetch content from your backend but want to avoid going through the
whole Upsun \[build and deploy
processes\](/learn/overview/build-deploy.md) again.

### Note

The following examples assume that the frontend and backend containers
are included in the same environment. This isn't necessary for the
commands to run successfully.\
What *is* necessary is that the build destination for your frontend **is
writable at runtime** (meaning, you must [define a
mount](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#mounts) for
it). If you don't want to include a build within a mount (especially if
your data source **isn't** on Upsun), you can use source operations to
achieve a similar effect, but through generating a new commit.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Gatsby
-   Next.js

To run the [Gatsby
build](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/conceptual/overview-of-the-gatsby-build-process/#understanding-gatsby-build-build-time)
step, define a runtime operation similar to the following:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" operations: gatsby-build: role: viewer commands: start: gatsby build`

To trigger your runtime operation, run a command similar to the
following:

`upsun operation:run gatsby-build --project PROJECT_ID --environment ENVIRONMENT_NAME`

To run the [Next.js
build](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment#nextjs-build-api) step, define
a runtime operation similar to the following:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" operations: next-build: role: admin commands: # All below are valid, depending on your setup start: next build # start: npx next build # start: npm run build`

To trigger your runtime operation, run a command similar to the
following:

`upsun operation:run next-build --project PROJECT_ID --environment ENVIRONMENT_NAME`
\### Execute actions on your Node.js app You can define runtime
operations for common \[pm2\](https://pm2.io/docs/runtime/overview/)
process manager tasks.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Ping your app
-   Reload your app
-   Restart your app

To ping your Node.js app, define a runtime operation similar to the
following:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" operations: pm2-ping: role: admin commands: start: | # Assuming pm2 start npm --no-daemon --watch --name $APP -- start -- -p $PORT APP=$(cat package.json | jq -r '.name') pm2 ping $APP `

To trigger your runtime operation, run a command similar to the
following:

`upsun operation:run pm2-ping --project PROJECT_ID --environment ENVIRONMENT_NAME`

To reload your Node.js app, define a runtime operation similar to the
following:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" operations: pm2-reload: role: admin commands: start: | # Assuming pm2 start npm --no-daemon --watch --name $APP -- start -- -p $PORT APP=$(cat package.json | jq -r '.name') pm2 reload $APP `

To trigger your runtime operation, run a command similar to the
following:

`upsun operation:run pm2-reload --project PROJECT_ID --environment ENVIRONMENT_NAME`

To restart your Node.js app, define a runtime operation similar to the
following:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" operations: pm2-restart: role: admin commands: start: | # Assuming pm2 start npm --no-daemon --watch --name $APP -- start -- -p $PORT APP=$(cat package.json | jq -r '.name') pm2 restart $APP `

To trigger your runtime operation, run a command similar to the
following:

`upsun operation:run pm2-restart --project PROJECT_ID --environment ENVIRONMENT_NAME`
\### Define management commands on your Django project On a Django
project, you can \[define custom \`django-admin\`
commands\](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/howto/custom-management-commands/),
for example to run a one-off management command (\`manual migration\` in
the example above) outside of the Django ORM migration framework. To do
so, define a runtime operation similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" type: python:3.9 operations:
manual-migration: role: admin commands: start: python manage.py
manual_migration \`\`\` To trigger your runtime operation, run a command
similar to the following: \`\`\`bash upsun operation:run
manual-migration \--project PROJECT_ID \--environment ENVIRONMENT_NAME
\`\`\` #Using Xdebug

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

\[Xdebug\](https://xdebug.org/) is a real-time debugger extension for
PHP. While usually used for local development, it can also be helpful
for debugging aberrant behavior on the server. As configured on Upsun,
it avoids any runtime overhead for non-debug requests, even in
production, and only allows connections via SSH tunnels to avoid any
security issues. Note that Xdebug runs only on your app containers. So
you can\'t use it for \[worker
containers\](../../create-apps/workers.md). Also, note that if you use a
\[custom start command\](./\_index.md#alternate-start-commands), Xdebug
is automatically disabled. \## Before you begin The following table
shows the PHP versions where Xdebug is available:

  5.4     5.5     5.6     7.0     7.1     7.2     7.3     7.4     8.0     8.1     8.2     8.3     8.4
  ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -----
  Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   Avail   

You also need: - The Upsun
\[CLI\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md) - A Xdebug-compatible IDE
installed on your machine. For setup instructions, consult your IDE\'s
Xdebug documentation, such as that for
\[PHPStorm\](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/phpstorm/configuring-xdebug.html).
\## 1. Set up Xdebug Xdebug runs as a second PHP-FPM process used only
for debugging requests, leaving the normal process unaffected. To enable
Xdebug, add the following to your \[app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' runtime: xdebug:
idekey: YOUR_KEY \`\`\` YOUR_KEY can be any arbitrary alphanumeric
string. When that key is defined, Upsun starts a second PHP-FPM process
on the container that\'s identically configured but also has Xdebug
enabled. Only incoming requests that have an Xdebug cookie or query
parameter set are forwarded to the debug PHP-FPM process. All other
requests are directed to the normal PHP-FPM process and thus have no
performance impact. If you have enabled the \[router
cache\](../../define-routes/cache.md), you need to explicitly add the
Xdebug cookie (\`XDEBUG_SESSION\`) to the cookie allowlist. Depending on
the cookies already listed, the result should look similar to the
following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' runtime:
xdebug: idekey: YOUR_KEY routes: \"https://{default}/\": \# \... cache:
enabled: true cookies: \[\'/\^SS?ESS/\', \'XDEBUG_SESSION\'\] \`\`\`
Xdebug has several configuration options available. They can be set the
same way as any other \[PHP setting\](./\_index.md#php-settings). For a
full list of available options, consult the \[Xdebug
documentation\](https://xdebug.org/docs/). \## 2. Use Xdebug \### Open a
tunnel To open an SSH tunnel to the server from a local checkout of your
app, run the following \[CLI
command\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md) : \`\`\`bash upsun
environment:xdebug \`\`\` That SSH tunnel allows your IDE and the server
to communicate debug information securely. By default, Xdebug operates
on port \`9003\`. Generally, it\'s best to configure your IDE to use
that port. To use an alternate port, use the \`\--port\` flag. To close
the tunnel and terminate the debug connection, press [Ctrl]{.kbd} +
[C]{.kbd}. \### Install an Xdebug helper While Xdebug can be triggered
from the browser by adding a special query parameter, the preferred way
is to use a browser plugin helper. Helpers are available for
\[Firefox\](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/xdebug-helper-for-firefox/)
and
\[Chrome\](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/xdebug-helper/eadndfjplgieldjbigjakmdgkmoaaaoc).
Their respective plugin pages document how to trigger them when needed.
\## 3. Configure your IDE Follow the instructions for your IDE, such as
those for
\[PHPStorm\](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/phpstorm/configuring-xdebug.html).
The common steps for setup usually include: 1. Configuring the Xdebug
debug port and making sure it\'s set to the expected value (\`9003\` as
default or the value you chose with \`\--port\` when opening the
tunnel). 2. Making sure that external connections are allowed. 3. Adding
a new server for your Upsun environment. The Host should be the hostname
of the environment on Upsun you are debugging. The Port should always be
\`443\` and the Debugger set to \`Xdebug\`. 4. Ensuring path mappings is
enabled. This lets you define what remote paths on the server correspond
to what path on your local machine. In the majority of cases you can
just define \[your app
root\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#root-directory)
to map to \`myapp\`. 5. Listening for connections. 6. Starting
debugging. While in listen mode, start the \`upsun xdebug\` tunnel. Use
the Xdebug helper plugin for your browser to enable debugging. Set a
break point in your app, then load a page in your browser. The request
should pause at the break point and allow you to examine the running
app. #Custom Redis versions

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

\[Redis\](../../add-services/redis.md) is a popular structured key-value
service, supported by Upsun. It\'s frequently used for caching. \##
Install PhpRedis The \[PhpRedis\](https://github.com/phpredis/phpredis)
extension is available on Upsun\'s PHP container images. The extension
has been known to break its API between versions when removing
deprecated functionality. The version available on each application
image is the latest available at the time that PHP version was built,
which if your app is sensitive to PhpRedis versions may not be ideal. It
may happen that the version of the PhpRedis extension available for your
PHP version isn\'t compatible with your app and upgrading your app
isn\'t feasible. If so, use the following script as an alternative to
download and compile a precise version of the extension.

### Note

Do *not* use this approach unless you really need to. Using the provided
PhpRedis extension is preferred in the majority of cases.

To ease the installation of a customer version of PhpRedis, use a
\[PhpRedis install
script\](https://github.com/platformsh/snippets/blob/main/src/install-phpredis.sh).
Invoke this script from your build hook, specifying a version. Any
tagged version of the library is acceptable: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' hooks: build: \| set -e \# Install PhpRedis
v5.3.7: curl -fsS
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/snippets/main/src/install-phpredis.sh
\| { bash /dev/fd/3 5.3.7 ; } 3\<&0 \`\`\` \## Install Relay Relay is a
\[Redis\](../../add-services/redis.md) client similar to
\[PhpRedis\](https://github.com/phpredis/phpredis) and
\[Predis\](https://github.com/predis/predis). It\'s intended to be a
drop-in replacement for those libraries. That PHP extension is also a
shared in-memory cache like APCu. All retrieved keys are held in the PHP
master process' memory, which is shared across all FPM workers. That
means if the FPM Worker #1 fetches the \`users:count\` key from Redis,
all other FPM workers instantaneously retrieve that key from Relay
without having to communicate with Redis. To ease the installation of a
customer version of Relay, use the \[Relay install
script\](https://github.com/platformsh/snippets/blob/main/src/install-relay.sh).
Invoke this script from your build hook, specifying a version. Any
tagged version of the library is acceptable: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' hooks: build: \| set -e \# Install Relay
v0.6.0: curl -fsS
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/snippets/main/src/install-relay.sh
\| { bash /dev/fd/3 v0.6.0 ; } 3\<&0 \`\`\` \## Change extension or
version To change the Redis extension or the version you are using,
update the build hook and clear the build cache: \`upsun
project:clear-build-cache\`. The new version is \*not\* be used until
you clear the build cache. There\'s no need to declare the extension in
the \`runtime\` block. That\'s only for pre-built extensions. \## What
these scripts do 1. Download the Relay/PhpRedis source code. 2. Check
out the version specified in the build hook. 3. Compile the extension.
4. Copy the resulting \`relay.so\`/\`redis.so\` file to \[your app
root\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#root-directory).
5. Add a line to the \`php.ini\` file in your app root to enable the
extension, creating the file if necessary. If the script doesn\'t find a
\`\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR\` directory defined, it exits silently. So if you
run the build hook locally, it has no effect. #Transfer files to and
from your app After your app is built, its file system is read-only.
This means that the only way you can edit your app\'s code is through
Git. However, you can transfer files to and from your built app without
using Git. To do so, you need to configure mounts or use an SSH client.
\[Mounts\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts)
let you set up directories that remain writable after the build is
complete. You can then transfer files directly to and from mounts inside
your app with a single command via the \[Upsun
CLI\](../administration/cli/\_index.md). Alternatively, you can transfer
files to and from your built app using an SSH client such as \`scp\` or
\`rsync\`. \## Transfer files using the CLI \### View the mounts inside
your app Before you start transferring files, you may want to view a
list of all the mounts inside your app. To do so, run the following
command: \`\`\`bash upsun mounts \`\`\` The output is similar to the
following: \`\`\`bash Mounts on
abcdefgh1234567-main-abcd123\--app@ssh.eu.upsun.com:
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| Mount path \| Definition \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| web/sites/default/files \| source: storage \| \| \| source_path:
files \| \| private \| source: storage \| \| \| source_path: private \|
\| tmp \| source: tmp \| \| \| source_path: temp \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\`\`\` \### Transfer a file to a mount To transfer a file to a mount
using the CLI, you can use the \`mount:upload\` command. For example, to
upload the files contained in the local \`private\` directory to the
\`private\` mount, run the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun
mount:upload \--mount private \--source ./private \`\`\` You get the
following output: \`\`\`bash Uploading files from ./private to the
remote mount private Are you sure you want to continue? \[Y/n\] sending
incremental file list example.sh sent 2.35K bytes received 20 bytes
1.58K bytes/sec total size is 1.77M speedup is 745.09 \`\`\` \###
Transfer a file from a mount To transfer a file from a mount using the
CLI, you can use the \`mount:download\` command. For example, to
download a file from the \`private\` mount to your local \`private\`
directory, run the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun mount:download
\--mount private \--target ./private \`\`\` You get the following
output: \`\`\`bash Downloading files from the remote mount private to
./private Are you sure you want to continue? \[Y/n\] receiving
incremental file list example.sh sent 2.35K bytes received 20 bytes
1.58K bytes/sec total size is 1.77M speedup is 745.09 \`\`\` \##
Transfer files using an SSH client Another way to transfer files to and
from your built app is to use an SSH client such as
\[\`scp\`\](file-transfer.md#scp),
\[\`rsync\`\](file-transfer.md#rsync), or
\[\`sftp\`\](file-transfer.md#sftp). \### scp You can use \`scp\` to
copy files to and from a remote environment. For example, to download a
\`diagram.png\` file from the \`web/uploads\` directory (relative to the
\[app
root\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#root-directory)),
run the following command: \`\`\`bash scp \"\$(upsun ssh
\--pipe)\":web/uploads/diagram.png . \`\`\` The \`diagram.png\` file is
copied to the current local directory. To copy files from your local
directory to the Upsun environment, reverse the order of the parameters:
\`\`\`bash scp diagram.png \"\$(upsun ssh \--pipe)\":web/uploads \`\`\`
For other options, see the \[\`scp\`
documentation\](https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/scp.1.html).
\### rsync You can use \`rsync\` to copy files to and from a remote
environment. For example, to copy all the files in the \`web/uploads\`
directory on the remote environment to the local \`uploads\` directory,
run the following command: \`\`\`bash rsync -azP \"\$(upsun ssh
\--pipe)\":web/uploads/ ./uploads/ \`\`\` To copy files from your local
directory to the Upsun environment, reverse the order of the parameters:
\`\`\`bash rsync -azP uploads/ \"\$(upsun ssh \--pipe)\":web/uploads/
\`\`\` Note that \`rsync\` is very sensitive about trailing \`/\`
characters. If you\'re using UTF-8 encoded files on macOS, add the
\`\--iconv=utf-8-mac,utf-8\` flag to your \`rsync\` call. For more
options, consult the \[rsync
documentation\](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/rsync.1.html).
\### sftp You can use \`sftp\` to copy files to and from a remote
environment.

### Note

Upsun supports `sftp`, but the following limitations apply:

-   You can only create `sftp` accounts with an existing Upsun user and
    an SSH key. Custom users and passwords aren't supported.
-   `sftp` access cannot be limited to a specific directory. Instead,
    access is given to **the whole application directory** and its
    mounts.

\#### Open an \`sftp\` connection Run the following command: \`\`\`bash
sftp \"\$(upsun ssh \--pipe)\" \`\`\` When prompted, select the project
and environment you want to connect to. The \`sftp\` connection is open
once the \`sftp\>\` prompt is displayed in your terminal. \#### Download
a file Say you want to download a \`diagram.png\` file from the
\`web/uploads\` directory (relative to the \[app
root\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#root-directory)).
To do so, run the following command: \`\`\` sftp\> get
web/uploads/diagram.png \`\`\` The \`diagram.png\` file is copied to the
current local directory. \#### Upload a file Say you want to upload a
\`diagram.png\` file to the \`web/uploads\` directory (relative to the
\[app
root\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#root-directory)).
To do so, run the following command: \`\`\`bash sftp\> put diagram.png
web/uploads \`\`\` For other options, see the \[\`sftp\`
documentation\](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/sftp.1.html).
#HTTP Headers Upsun adds a number of HTTP headers to both inbound and
outbound messages. We don't modify or block existing headers on either
request or response. \## Request headers Upsun adds the following HTTP
headers in the router to give the application information about the
connection. These are stable and may be examined by the application as
necessary. \* \`X-Forwarded-Proto\`: The protocol forwarded to the
application, for example: \`http\`, \`https\`. \* \`X-Client-IP\`: The
remote IP address of the request. \* \`X-Client-SSL\`: Set \"on\" only
if the client is using SSL connection, otherwise the header isn\'t
added. \* \`X-Original-Route\`: The route in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`
which is used currently, for example: \`https://{default}/\`. \##
Response headers Upsun adds a number of response headers automatically
to assist in debugging connections. These headers should be treated as a
semi-private API. Do not code against them, but they may be inspected to
help determine how Upsun handled the request to aid in debugging. -
\`X-Platform-Cache\`: Either \`HIT\` or \`MISS\` to indicate if the
router in your cluster served the response from its own cache or if the
request was passed through to the application. - \`X-Platform-Cluster\`:
The ID of the cluster that received the request. The cluster name is
formed from the project ID and environment ID. -
\`X-Platform-Processor\`: The ID of the container that generated the
response. The container ID is the cluster ID plus the container name. -
\`X-Platform-Router\`: The ID of the router that served the request. The
router ID is the processor ID of the router container, specifically. -
\`X-Debug-Info\`: This is a header added by the edge layer. It doesn\'t
contain any sensitive information or anything that could be misused. It
has no relation to the PHP debugging tool
\[Xdebug\](https://xdebug.org). \## Classification data headers Upsun
sends classification data to your backend system through the following
HTTP headers. \| HTTP header \| Type \| Description \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\| \| \`Client-Cdn\` \| string \| When a CDN that is supported by Upsun
is used, this header displays its name (Fastly, Cloudflare, or
Cloudfront). \| \| \`Client-Country\` \| string \| The two-character ISO
3166-1 country code of the end-client IP (after CDN handling for the
CDNs that Upsun supports).\
The geolocation data sent through this header is provided by \[MaxMind
GeoLite2\](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geolite2-free-geolocation-data).\|
\| \`Client-Abuse-Score\` \| integer \| The abuse score of the
end-client IP. A score \>= 100 indicates a near certainty that the
request comes from an abusive IP.\
The abuse data sent through this header is provided by
\[AbuseIPDB\](https://www.abuseipdb.com/). \| \| \`Client-Asn\` \|
integer \| The Autonomous System number of the end-client IP.\
The geolocation data sent through this header is provided by \[MaxMind
GeoLite2\](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geolite2-free-geolocation-data).\|
\## Custom headers Apart from those listed above, your application is
responsible for setting its own response headers. You can also \[add
headers to static files\](../create-apps/web/custom-headers.md). #Swoole

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

Swoole is a PHP extension that extends PHP core with a coroutine based
asynchronous network application framework designed for building large
scale concurrent systems. Unlike PHP-FPM's stateless operating, Swoole
relies on establishing persistent connections with every user, sending
and receiving data in real-time.
\[Swoole\](https://github.com/swoole/swoole-src) and \[Open
Swoole\](https://openswoole.com/) are two forked libraries pursuing that
goal.

### Note

The `swoole` and `openswoole` extensions are available by default on
Upsun PHP 8.2 Upsun containers.

For other versions of PHP, you can install both extensions manually by
following the instructions on this page. You need: - PHP 7.3+ for
Swoole - PHP 7.4.0+ for Open Swoole - The \[Swoole installation
script\](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/snippets/main/src/install_swoole.sh).

### Note

Currently, the installation script is compatible with PHP \<=8.0.It is
**not** compatible with PHP 8.3, and the `swoole` and `openswoole`
extensions are **not** available on Upsun PHP 8.3 containers yet.

\## Install Install the PHP extension for Swoole or Open Swoole during
the build. Take advantage of an \[installation
script\](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/snippets/main/src/install_swoole.sh).
You need to pass 2 parameters: \* Which Swoole project to use:
\`openswoole\` or \`swoole\` \* Which version to install \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: app: type: \'php:\' hooks: build: \| set -e \... curl -fsS
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/snippets/main/src/install_swoole.sh
\| { bash /dev/fd/3 openswoole 4.11.0 ; } 3\<&0 \`\`\` \## Use Override
the default web server with a \[custom start
command\](./\_index.md#alternate-start-commands). Octane should listen
on a TCP socket. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: \'php:8.4\'
web: upstream: socket_family: tcp protocol: http commands: start: php
PATH_TO_SWOOLE_START_COMMAND \--port=\$PORT locations: \"/\": passthru:
true scripts: false allow: false \`\`\` #Access your logs \## Activity
logs Changes to your environments, such as deployments, cron jobs, and
code or variable updates, are each logged as activities. You can access
the logs either in the Console or using the
\[CLI\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md):

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

1.  Open the project you are interested in.
2.  From the **Environment** menu, select an environment.
3.  Click a recent activity from the activity feed or click **All** to
    see the complete history.

<!-- -->

1.  Get a list of activities by running

    `upsun activity:list -e ENVIRONMENT_NAME`

    Pass the `--start` flag to get activities from a specific date in
    the past.

2.  To see details about the activity's state and timing, run

    `upsun activity:get ACTIVITY_ID`

    Where ACTIVITY_ID comes from the list in step 1.

3.  Get a log of any given activity by running

    `upsun activity:log ACTIVITY_ID`

If a running activity is stuck, you can \[cancel the
activity\](../../environments/cancel-activity.md). \### Sharing activity
logs When trying to identify and resolve failures, it can often help to
have another person\'s perspective. Troubleshoot collaboratively by
sharing the logs of specific activities. To share a log, open the log
and click
![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
\*\*Copy URL\*\*. Share specific lines in the log on clicking the line
number. To select multiple lines, hold [Shift]{.kbd}. After selecting
multiple lines, hovering on the next unselected line gives you the
amount of time that passed between the selected lines. \![An activity
log with multiple lines selected showing the duration of part of the
activity\](/images/management-console/activity-lines.png \"0.5\") \##
Container logs Events that occur within an app container are logged
within that container. The logs can be written to, but you should do so
only with standard logging mechanisms. If your app has its own logging
mechanism, use it to write to a dedicated logs
\[mount\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts). To
access the logs of various types of events:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   Using SSH directly

Use the `upsun log` command and specify the type of log you want. For
example, to get the access log, run:

`upsun log -e ENVIRONMENT_NAME access`

To get other logs, just replace `access` with the [type of
log](#types-of-container-logs). To view more lines, use the `--lines`
flag.

1.  Access the container by running

    `upsun ssh -e ENVIRONMENT_NAME`

2.  Change to the right directory by running `cd /var/log`.

3.  Read the desired log, such as by running `tail access.log`.

All log files are trimmed to 100 MB automatically. If you need larger
logs, set up a \[cron
job\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#crons) to
upload them to third-party storage. See an example of \[uploading logs
to Amazon
S3\](https://gitlab.com/contextualcode/platformsh-store-logs-at-s3) from
Contextual Code. \### Types of container logs \| Type \| Always present
\| Description \| \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| \`access\` \|
Yes \| The raw access log for the nginx instance running on the
container. It doesn\'t include requests that are redirected or cached by
the \[router\](../../define-routes/\_index.md). \| \| \`app\` \| Yes \|
All log messages generated by the app including language errors and
exceptions. \| \| \`cron\` \| No \| The output of cron jobs. Only exists
after a cron job has run. \| \| \`deploy\` \| No \| The output of the
\[\`deploy\`
hook\](../../create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#deploy-hook). Only
exists after a \`deploy\` hook has run. \| \| \`dns\` \| Yes \| All DNS
queries made by processes in the container (such as the app and cron
jobs). \| \| \`error\` \| Yes \| nginx-level errors that occur once
nginx has fully started such as HTTP errors for missing directories and
excluded file types. \| \| \`nginx/error\` \| No \| All nginx startup
log messages. Only useful when debugging possible nginx configuration
errors. Not currently available using the \`upsun log\` command. \| \|
\`php.access\` \| No \| A record of all requests to the PHP service. See
\[PHP access record format\](#php-access-record-format). \| \|
\`post-deploy\` \| No \| The output of the \[\`post_deploy\`
hook\](../../create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#post-deploy-hook).
Only exists after a \`post_deploy\` hook has run. \| \#### PHP access
record format The formatting of \`php.access.log\` is determined by the
PHP settings. To determine the format, run the following: \`\`\`bash
upsun ssh cat -n /etc/php/PHP_VERSION-zts/fpm/php-fpm.conf \| grep
\"access.format\" \`\`\` You get a response such as the following:
\`\`\`bash Connection to ssh.eu.platform.sh closed. access.format =
\"%{%FT%TZ}t %m %s %{mili}d ms %{kilo}M kB %C%% %{REQUEST_URI}e\" \`\`\`
See what \[each value in this string
means\](https://www.php.net/manual/en/install.fpm.configuration.php#access-format).
\## Timezones UTC is the default timezone for all logs. #Send email You
can configure your Upsun environments to send emails via an SMTP proxy.
Emails aren\'t guaranteed to be deliverable and you can\'t white-label
them. The SMTP proxy is intended as a zero-configuration, best-effort
service.

### Note

All preview environments are limited to 12,000 email credits per
calendar month.

\## 1. Turn on outgoing email You can turn on outgoing email for each
environment. By default, email is turned on for your Production
environment and blocked for other environments. To turn it on for a
specific environment, follow these steps:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

<!-- -->

-   Select the project with the given environment.
-   From the **Environment** menu, select the environment.
-   Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
-   In the row with **Outgoing emails**, click **Edit
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)**.
-   Select the **Email sending** checkbox.

To turn off outgoing email, clear the **Email sending** checkbox.

To turn on outgoing email, run the following command:

`upsun environment:info --environment ENVIRONMENT_NAME enable_smtp true`

To turn off outgoing email, replace `true` with `false`.

Changing the setting rebuilds the environment. \## 2. Recommended:
Improve deliverability Improve deliverability of your email with
\[Sender Policy Framework
(SPF)\](https://docs.sendgrid.com/ui/account-and-settings/spf-records).
If you don\'t have an SPF record, add the following \`TXT\` record to
your domain\'s DNS records: \`\`\`txt v=spf1 include:sendgrid.net -all
\`\`\` Having several, conflicting \`TXT\` records isn\'t supported due
to \[rfc4408 section
3.1.2\](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4408#section-3.1.2). If
you already have an SPF record, please add SendGrid into your existing
record. \## 3. (Optional) Validate your email You can request for
DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) to be enabled on your domain. DKIM
improves your delivery rate as an email sender. Learn more about \[how
DKIM works\](https://docs.sendgrid.com/glossary/dkim). To have DKIM
enabled for your domain: 1. Open a \[support
ticket\](/learn/overview/get-support) with the domain where you want
DKIM. 2. Update your DNS configuration with the \`CNAME\` and \`TXT\`
records that you get in the ticket. Checks for the expected DNS records
run every 15 minutes before validation. The \`TXT\` record looks similar
to the following: \`\`\`txt v=spf1 include:u17504801.wl.sendgrid.net
-all \`\`\` \## 4. Test the email service To test the email service, use
the \[CLI\](../administration/cli/\_index.md) to connect to your app by
running \`upsun ssh\`. Run the following command: \`\`\`bash printf
\"From: SENDER_EMAIL_ADDRESS\\nSubject: Test \\nThis is a test message\"
\| /usr/sbin/sendmail RECIPIENT_EMAIL_ADDRESS \`\`\` Replace the
variables with actual email addresses as in the following example:
\`\`\`bash printf \"From: someone@example.com\\nSubject: Test \\nThis is
a test message\" \| /usr/sbin/sendmail someone@example.net \`\`\` In a
little while, the test message should arrive at the recipient address.
Be careful to test with real email addresses. If you send emails to fake
domains (such as \`example.com\`), they fail and hurt your sending
reputation. Make sure your test emails are deliverable. \## 5. Send
email from your app You can use \`/usr/sbin/sendmail\` on your app
container to send emails as with the example in the previous step. Or
use the \`PLATFORM_SMTP_HOST\` environment variable in your SMTP
configuration. When outgoing emails are on, \`PLATFORM_SMTP_HOST\` is
the address of the SMTP host that should be used. When outgoing emails
are off, the variable is empty. When using \`PLATFORM_SMTP_HOST\`, send
email through port 25 (often the default). Your emails are proxied
through the Upsun SMTP host and encrypted over port 465 before being
sent to the outside world. The precise way to send email depends on the
language and framework you use. See some examples for given languages.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   PHP
-   Java

To send email in PHP, you can use the built-in `mail()` function. The
PHP runtime is configured to send email automatically with the correct
configuration. This works even for libraries such as PHPMailer, which
uses the `mail()` function by default.

Note that the `From` header is required. Your email isn't sent if that
header is missing.

Beware of potential security problems when using the `mail()` function.
If you use any input from users in the `$additional_headers` or
`$additional_params` parameters, be sure to sanitize it first.

JavaMail is a Java API used to send and receive email via SMTP, POP3,
and IMAP. JavaMail is built into the Jakarta EE platform, but also
provides an optional package for use in Java SE.

Jakarta Mail defines a platform-independent and protocol-independent
framework to build mail and messaging applications.

The following example sends email using Jakarta Mail:

`import sh.platform.config.Config; import javax.mail.Message; import javax.mail.MessagingException; import javax.mail.Session; import javax.mail.Transport; import javax.mail.internet.InternetAddress; import javax.mail.internet.MimeMessage; import java.util.Properties; import java.util.logging.Level; import java.util.logging.Logger; public class JavaEmailSender { private static final Logger LOGGER = Logger.getLogger(JavaEmailSender.class.getName()); public void send() { Config config = new Config(); String to = "";//change accordingly String from = "";//change accordingly String host = config.getSmtpHost(); //or IP address //Get the session object Properties properties = System.getProperties(); properties.setProperty("mail.smtp.host", host); Session session = Session.getDefaultInstance(properties); //compose the message try { MimeMessage message = new MimeMessage(session); message.setFrom(new InternetAddress(from)); message.addRecipient(Message.RecipientType.TO, new InternetAddress(to)); message.setSubject("Ping"); message.setText("Hello, this is example of sending email "); // Send message Transport.send(message); System.out.println("message sent successfully...."); } catch (MessagingException exp) { exp.printStackTrace(); LOGGER.log(Level.SEVERE, "there is an error to send an message", exp); } } }`

Guides on using JavaMail:

-   Send email with HTML formatting and attachments
-   JavaMail API

\## Alternative: Use a different email server If you need more options,
use your own SMTP server or email delivery service provider. Bear in
mind that TCP port 25 is blocked for security reasons. Use port 465 or
587 instead to send email to your own external email server. #{{%
vendor/name %}} YAML tags In addition to the \[basic functions you
should be familiar with\](./what-is-yaml.md), YAML allows for special
tags. Upsun accepts certain custom tags to facilitate working with
configuration files. These tags work with Upsun configuration files, but
may not elsewhere. \## Include Use the \`!include\` tag to embed
external files within a given YAML file. The tag requires two
properties: \| Property \| Type \| Possible values \| Description \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| \`type\` \| \`string\` \| \`string\`,
\`binary\`, or \`yaml\` \| See the descriptions of \[strings\](#string),
\[binaries\](#binary), and \[YAML\](#yaml). Defaults to \`yaml\`. \| \|
\`path\` \| \`string\` \| \| The path to the file to include, relative
to the application directory or \`source.root\`. \|

### Note

By default, `path` is relative to the current application's directory
(what you would define with `source.root`). It is possible to include
files from a directory parent to the folder however.

For example, for the following project structure:

`. ├── .upsun | └── .upsun/config.yaml ├── backend │ ├── main.py │ ├── requirements.txt │ └── scripts │ ├── ... │ └── common_build.sh └── frontend ├── README.md ├── package-lock.json ├── package.json ├── public ├── scripts │ └── clean.sh └── src`

This configuration is valid:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: frontend: source: root: frontend # ... hooks: build: !include type: string path: ../backend/scripts/common_build.sh`

\### \`string\` Use \`string\` to include an external file inline in the
YAML file as if entered as a multi-line string. For example, if you have
a build hook like the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
hooks: build: \| set -e cp a.txt b.txt \`\`\` You could create a file
for the script: \`\`\`text {} set -e cp a.txt b.txt \`\`\` And replace
the hook with an include tag for an identical result: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: hooks: build: !include type: string path: build.sh
\`\`\` This helps you break longer configuration like build scripts out
into a separate file for easier maintenance. Even if \`\`path\`\` is
relative to the current application\'s directory, it is also possible to
include a shell script from a directory parent to the folder however.
For example, for the following project structure: \`\`\`bash . ├──
.upsun \| └── config.yaml ├── backend │ ├── main.py │ ├──
requirements.txt │ └── scripts │ ├── \... │ └── common_build.sh └──
frontend ├── README.md ├── package-lock.json ├── package.json ├── public
├── scripts │ └── clean.sh └── src \`\`\` This configuration is valid:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: frontend: source: root: frontend \# \...
hooks: build: !include type: string path:
../backend/scripts/common_build.sh \`\`\`

### Note

Please note that Upsun will execute this
`../backend/scripts/common_build.sh` script using Dash.

\### \`binary\` Use \`binary\` to include an external binary file inline
in the YAML file. The file is base64 encoded. For example, you could
include a \`favicon.ico\` file in the same folder as your app
configuration. Then you can include it as follows: \`\`\`yaml {}
some-property: favicon: !include type: binary path: favicon.ico \`\`\`
\### \`yaml\` Use \`yaml\` to include an external YAML file inline as if
entered directly. Because \`yaml\` is the default, you can use it
without specifying the type. For example, you could have your
configuration for works defined in a \`worker.yaml\` file: \`\`\`yaml {}
commands: start: python queue-worker.py variables: env: type: worker
\`\`\` Then the following three configurations are exactly equivalent:
\`\`\`yaml {} workers: queue1: !include \"worker.yaml\" \`\`\`
\`\`\`yaml {} workers: queue1: !include type: yaml path: \'worker.yaml\'
\`\`\` \`\`\`yaml {} workers: queue1: commands: start: python
queue-worker.py variables: env: type: worker \`\`\` This can help
simplify more complex files. For \[multiple
application\](/create-apps/multi-app/\_index.md) project, you can also
include another \`\`.upsun/apps/my-app.yaml\`\` file in the main
\`.upsun/config.yaml\`. \`\`\`yaml {} source: root: \"/\" type:
\"nodejs:18\" web: commands: start: \"node index.js\" upstream:
socket_family: tcp locations: \"/\": passthru: true \`\`\` and including
it: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: !include ./apps/my-app.yaml
\`\`\` \## Archive Use the \`!archive\` tag for a reference to an entire
directory specified relative to where the YAML file is. For example, you
might want to define a configuration directory for your \[Solr
service\](/add-services/solr.md). You might do so as follows: \`\`\`yaml
{} mysearch: type: solr:8.0 configuration: conf_dir: !archive
\"solr/conf\" \`\`\` The \`!archive\` tag means that the value for
\`conf_dir\` isn\'t the string \`solr/conf\` but the entire
\`solr/conf\` directory. This directory is in the \`.upsun\` directory,
since that\'s where the \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file is. The
\`solr/conf\` directory is then copied into the Upsun management system
to use with the service. #Blackfire for PHP and Python Full access to
\[Blackfire\](https://www.blackfire.io/) is bundled with all your PHP
and Python Upsun projects. Blackfire is the \*\*official Upsun
observability service\*\* that helps you improve the performance of your
apps at each stage of their lifecycle. With Blackfire\'s unique
Application Performance Monitoring (APM), Profiling, Alerting, and
Testing features, you can achieve the following goals: - Avoid
performance bottlenecks by proactively identifying issues in your code -
Promptly solve identified issues by taking advantage of actionable
recommendations - Create performance budgets for critical parts of your
app and get alerted of any problem before a change hits your production

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden;"}
:::::: iframe
::: {#player}
:::

:::: player-unavailable
# Une erreur s\'est produite. {#une-erreur-sest-produite. .message}

::: submessage
[Essayez de regarder cette vidéo sur
www.youtube.com](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SNqQTYzHl0o){target="_blank"},
ou activez JavaScript dans votre navigateur si ce n\'est pas déjà le
cas.
:::
::::
::::::

Blackfire is installed natively on Upsun and \[works integrally with the
Upsun workflow\](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bq-LFjgD6L0). This
results in an effortless setup process and smooth user experience. \##
Get started with Blackfire You can only access your Blackfire
environments after you\'ve been granted access to the related Upsun
project. Therefore, to access your Blackfire environments, make sure you
log in using your Upsun account. To access a Blackfire environment, each
project user needs a Blackfire account. When a project user doesn\'t
already have a Blackfire account, a new one is automatically created
using the user\'s Upsun credentials.

### Note

If you're using a Content Delivery Network (CDN), make sure you
configure it to let Blackfire profile the code running on your servers.

\### Automated integration The Blackfire automated integration is
enabled on your environments by default. When you create a new
environment, it automatically triggers the creation of a Blackfire
environment with the same settings. On this Blackfire environment, you
have access to \[all the features provided by
Blackfire\](https://www.blackfire.io/features/). This includes
monitoring, profiling, alerting, and build-related features. Note that
Blackfire monitoring is enabled by default on your production
environment. On other environment types, you need to \[enable
it\](#blackfire-monitoring). User access settings are replicated from
the Upsun Console to Blackfire \-- this includes all \[access
levels\](https://blackfire.io/docs/up-and-running/access-management).
You might have Blackfire variables already set on your project. In this
case, the existing variables override the settings of the automated
integration.

### Note

To trigger the synchronization of changes to users and their access
levels, you need to redeploy the environment.

\### Blackfire monitoring Blackfire monitoring is enabled by default on
your production environment. To enable Blackfire monitoring on your
development or staging environments, follow these steps: 1. Go to your
\[organizations list\](https://blackfire.io/my/organizations) and select
the organization where you want to enable Blackfire monitoring. 2. Click
\*\*Organization Monitoring Usage\*\*. \![A screenshot of where to find
Organization Monitoring
Usage\](/images/integrations/blackfire/blackfire-organization-monitoring.png
\"0.40\") 3. In the \*\*Monitoring Activation\*\* section, enable
monitoring on the environments of your choice. \![A screenshot of
what\'s seen in Monitoring
Activation\](/images/integrations/blackfire/blackfire-monitoring-activation.png
\"0.40\") For more information on Blackfire monitoring features, see the
\[Blackfire
documentation\](https://blackfire.io/docs/monitoring-cookbooks/index).
\## Blackfire Profiling While your code is running, the Blackfire
profiler collects deep performance metrics and provides full details and
context of your code\'s behavior. This helps you find the root cause of
performance bottlenecks. Blackfire lets you profile your application
anywhere it\'s deployed, including on your local development machines.
Using a browser extension or CLI command, you can profile HTTP requests,
CLI scripts, Consumers, and Daemons. While HTTP requests can be profiled
out-of-the-box, CLI profiling requires a \[specific
configuration\](https://blackfire.io/docs/integrations/paas/upsun#cli-profiling).
For more information on Blackfire profiling features, see the
\[Blackfire
documentation\](https://blackfire.io/docs/profiling-cookbooks/index).
\## Test the performance of each new deployment Blackfire\'s native
integration with Upsun enables you to test your app\'s performance every
time you deploy a branch in production, staging, or development. Follow
these steps: 1. Set up the \[Blackfire Builds
integration\](https://blackfire.io/docs/integrations/paas/upsun#builds).
2. Optional: set up an \[integration with your Git
provider\](https://blackfire.io/docs/integrations/git/index) and get
commit status updates from build reports. 3. Recommended: test
business-critical use cases, with Blackfire \[synthetic
monitoring\](https://blackfire.io/docs/builds-cookbooks/scenarios). \##
Troubleshooting \### Bypass your reverse proxy, load balancer or CDN To
use \[Blackfire profiling\](#blackfire-profiling), you need to bypass
any reverse proxy, load balancer or
\[CDN\](../../domains/cdn/\_index.md) that sits in front of your app.
See \[how to configure a
bypass\](https://blackfire.io/docs/reference-guide/reverse-proxies#documentation).
\### Configure your HTTP cache To take advantage of Blackfire features
while using the HTTP cache with cookies, allow the \`\_\_blackfire\`
cookie to go through the cache. To do so, add \[a
configuration\](../../define-routes/cache.md#allowing-only-specific-cookies)
similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://{default}/\":
cache: enabled: true cookies: \[\"/SESS.\*/\", \"\_\_blackfire\"\]
\`\`\` \## Get support If you\'re experiencing issues with Blackfire and
\[troubleshooting\](#troubleshooting) information doesn\'t help, follow
these steps: 1. Retrieve \[startup errors\](#1-retrieve-startup-errors).
2. Retrieve your \[Blackfire logs\](#2-retrieve-your-blackfire-logs). 3.
Send this data to \[Blackfire Support\](https://support.blackfire.io).
\### 1. Retrieve startup errors To retrieve startup errors, run the
following command: \`\`\`bash upsun ssh \-- php -d
display_startup_errors=on \--ri blackfire \`\`\` \### 2. Retrieve your
Blackfire logs To retrieve your Blackfire logs, follow these steps: 1.
On the environment where you\'re facing issues, create the following
\[variable\](../../development/variables/set-variables.md): \`\`\`bash
upsun variable:create php:blackfire.log_file \--value /tmp/blackfire.log
\`\`\` 2. To set the verbosity of the logs to level 4 (debug level),
create the following variable: \`\`\`bash upsun variable:create
php:blackfire.log_level \--value 4 \`\`\` 3. Start a profile or build.
4. To display the logs, run the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun ssh
\-- cat /tmp/blackfire.log \> blackfire.log \`\`\` After you\'ve
retrieved the logs, you can disable them. To do so, run the following
commands: \`\`\`bash upsun variable:delete php:blackfire.log_file upsun
variable:delete php:blackfire.log_level \`\`\` #Choose a project
structure How you structure a project with multiple apps depends on how
your code is organized and what you want to accomplish. For example,
there are various ways you could set up the following multiple apps:
Here are some example use cases and potential ways to organize the
project: \| Use case \| Structure \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| Separate basic apps that are worked on together. \| \[Unified app
configuration\](#unified-app-configuration) \| \| One app depends on
code from another app. \| \[Nested directories\](#nested-directories) \|
\| You want to keep configuration separate from code, such as through
Git submodules. \| \[Configuration separate from
code\](#split-your-code-source-into-multiple-git-submodule-repositories)
\| \| You want multiple apps from the same source code. \| \[Unified app
configuration\](#unified-app-configuration) \| \| You want to control
all apps in a single location. \| \[Unified app
configuration\](#unified-app-configuration) \| \## Unified app
configuration You can configure all your apps from a single file. To do
so, create a \`.upsun/config.yaml\` and define each app as a key. For
example, if you have an API Platform backend with a Symfony API, a
Mercure Rocks server, and a Gatsby frontend, you can organize your
repository like this: \`\`\`txt ├── .upsun │ ├── config.yaml \<- Unified
configuration ├── admin │ └── \... \<- API Platform Admin app code ├──
api-app │ └── \... \<- Bigfoot app code ├── gatsby │ └── \... \<- Gatsby
app code └── mercure └── \... \<- Mercure Rocks app code \`\`\` The
\`api\` app is built from the \`api-app\` directory. The \`admin\` app
is built from the \`admin\` directory. The \`gatsby\` app is built from
the \`gatsby\` directory. The \`mercure\` app is built from the
\`mercure\` directory. They all have different configurations for how
they serve the files. For more details, see the \[complete example
file\](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp/blob/multiapp-monolith/.platform/applications.yaml).

### Note

The `.upsun` directory is located at the root, separate from your apps.
It contains all the needed configuration files to set up the routing,
services and behavior of each app. Since the code bases of your apps
live in a different directory, you need to [change the source root of
each app](#change-the-source-root-of-your-app).

To build multiple apps from the repository root, set `source.root` to
`/`. This allows you to control all your apps in one place and even
build multiple apps from the same source code.

To allow your apps to communicate with each other, define
\[relationships\](./relationships.md). Note that with this setup, when
you amend the code of one of your apps, the build image for your other
apps can still be reused. Once your repository is organized, you can use
a configuration similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
api: type: php:8.2 relationships: database: service: \"database\"
endpoint: \"postgresql\" mounts: \"/var/cache\": \"shared:files/cache\"
\"/var/log\": \"shared:files/log\" \"/var/sessions\":
\"shared:files/sessions\" web: locations: \"/\": root: \"public\"
passthru: \'/index.php\' index: - index.php headers:
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: \"\*\" hooks: build: \| set -x -e curl -s
https://get.symfony.com/cloud/configurator \| bash symfony-build deploy:
\| set -x -e symfony-deploy source: root: api-app admin: type: nodejs:16
mounts: \'/.tmp_platformsh\': \'shared:files/tmp_platformsh\'
\'/build\': \'shared:files/build\' \'/.cache\': \'shared:files/.cache\'
\'/node_modules/.cache\': \'shared:files/node_modules/.cache\' web:
locations: \"/admin\": root: \"build\" passthru: \"/admin/index.html\"
index: - \"index.html\" headers: Access-Control-Allow-Origin: \"\*\"
hooks: build: \| set -eu corepack yarn install \--immutable \--force
post_deploy: \| corepack yarn run build source: root: admin gatsby:
type: \'nodejs:18\' mounts: \'/.cache\': { source: tmp, source_path:
cache } \'/.config\': { source: storage, source_path: config }
\'/public\': { source: storage, source_path: public } web: locations:
\'/site\': root: \'public\' index: \[ \'index.html\' \] scripts: false
allow: true hooks: build: \| set -e yarn \--frozen-lockfile post_deploy:
\| yarn build \--prefix-paths source: root: gatsby mercure: type:
golang:1.18 mounts: \'database\': { source: storage, source_path:
\'database\' } \'/.local\': { source: storage, source_path: \'.local\' }
\'/.config\': { source: storage, source_path: \'.config\' } web:
commands: start: ./mercure run \--config Caddyfile.platform_sh
locations: /: passthru: true scripts: false request_buffering: enabled:
false headers: Access-Control-Allow-Origin: \"\*\" hooks: build: \| \#
Install Mercure using cache
FILE=\"mercure\_\${MERCUREVERSION}\_Linux_x86_64.tar.gz\" if \[ ! -f
\"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/\$FILE\" \]; then
URL=\"https://github.com/dunglas/mercure/releases/download/v\${MERCUREVERSION}/\$FILE\"
wget -O \"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/\$FILE\" \$URL else echo \"Found \$FILE
in cache, using cache\" fi file \$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/\$FILE tar xvzf
\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/\$FILE source: root: mercure/.config \`\`\` \##
Nested directories When code bases are separate, changes to one app
don\'t necessarily mean that the other apps in the project get rebuilt.
You might have a situation where app \`main\` depends on app
\`languagetool\`, but \`languagetool\` doesn\'t depend on \`main\`. In
such cases, you can nest the dependency so the parent (\`main\`) gets
rebuilt on changes to it or its children, but the child
(\`languagetool\`) is only rebuilt on changes to itself. For example,
you might have a Python app (\`main\`) that runs a script that requires
Java code to be up to date. But the Java app (\`languagetool\`) doesn\'t
require updating when the Python app (\`main\`) is updated. In that
case, you can nest the Java app within the Python app: \`\`\`txt ├──
.upsun │ ├── .upsun/config.yaml ├── languagetool │ └── main.java \<-
Java app code └── main.py \<- Python app code \`\`\` The Python app\'s
code base includes all of the files at the top level (excluding the
\`.upsun\` directory) \*and\* all of the files within the
\`languagetool\` directory. The Java app\'s code base includes only the
files within the \`languagetool\` directory. In this case, your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file must contain 2 entries, one for the \`main\`
app and second one for the \`languagetool\` app.

### Note

The `.upsun` directory is located at the root, separate from your apps.
It contains all the needed configuration files to set up the routing,
services and behavior of each app. Since the code base of the
`languagetool` app lives in a different directory (`languagetool/`), you
need to [change the source root](#change-the-source-root-of-your-app) of
the `languagetool` app.

Once your repository is organized, you can use a configuration similar
to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: main: type:
\'python:3.11\' source: root: \'/\' \... languagetool: type: \'java:17\'
source: root: \'languagetool\' \... \`\`\` \## Split your code source
into multiple Git submodule repositories If you have different teams
working on different code with different processes, you might want each
app to have its own repository. Then you can build them together in
another repository using \[Git
submodules\](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules). With
this setup, your apps are kept separate from the top application. Each
app has its own \[Git
submodule\](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules)
containing its code base. All your apps are configured in a single
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. So you could organize your \[project
repository\](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp/tree/submodules-root-app-yaml)
like this: \`\`\`text ├── .upsun │ ├── config.yaml ├── \@admin \<\-- API
Platform Admin submodule ├── \@api \<\-- Bigfoot submodule ├── \@gatsby
\<\-- Gatsby submodule ├── \@mercure \<\-- Mercure rocks submodule └──
.gitmodules \`\`\` \[Add the submodules using the Git
CLI\](/development/submodules.html#clone-submodules-during-deployment).
Your \`.gitmodules\` file would define all the submodules like this:
\`\`\`txt {} \[submodule \"admin\"\] path = admin url =
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-admin.git
\[submodule \"api\"\] path = api url =
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-api.git
\[submodule \"gatsby\"\] path = gatsby url =
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-gatsby.git
\[submodule \"mercure\"\] path = mercure url =
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-mercure.git
\`\`\`

### Note

In this case, and any other case where your app configuration files are
kept outside of the app directory, make sure you [change the source
root](#change-the-source-root-of-your-app) for each of your apps.

\## Change the source root of your app When your app\'s code base and
configuration file aren\'t located at the same directory level in your
project repository, you need to \[define a root
directory\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#root-directory)
for your app. To do so, add a new \`source.root\` property in your app
configuration. For example, to change the source root of the \`admin\`
app from the \[unified app configuration\](#unified-app-configuration)
example project, you could add the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: admin: source: root: admin \`\`\` The \`source.root\`
path is relative to the repository root. In this example, the \`admin\`
app now treats the \`admin\` directory as its root when building. If
\`source.root\` isn\'t specified, it defaults to the project root
directory, that is \`\"/\"\`. #Create a project To create a new project
on Upsun, you can take one of two paths:

Using the Console (recommended)

Open the \[Upsun management
console\](https://console.upsun.com/-/create-project) to create your
project.

### Note

If you haven't done so already, you are prompted to create your first
organization where your project will reside.

\![Create project options\](/images/console/create-project.png \"0.4\")
From the Console, what you do next entirely depends on where the
\"source of truth\" of your codebase is located. In this guide, you will
push your local repository to Upsun. That is, the only copy of your
codebase you\'d like to deploy is on your local computer. Click
\*\*Start from scratch\*\* from the \*\*Deploy with Git\*\* option.

### Git integrations

This guide does not specifically address integrating an Upsun project
with a third party repository such as one on GitHub, even though the
**Connect repository** option is available at this stage.

For now, continue to work locally. Third party integrations will be
addressed at the end of this guide.

Add details about your project, such as: - The name of your project. -
The default branch of your local repository. - Select the region where
you want your project to be hosted. As suggested in the Console, connect
the local copy of your repository to your project: \`\`\`bash upsun
project:set-remote PROJECT_ID \`\`\` Your local source code is
automatically linked to your newly created Upsun project through the
creation of a \`.upsun/local/project.yaml\` file. This file contains the
corresponding \`\` and sets a Git remote to \`upsun\`.

Using the CLI

To create a new project with the Upsun CLI, use the following command
and follow the prompts: \`\`\`bash {} upsun project:create \`\`\`

### Default branches

When creating a new project using the Upsun CLI command
`project:create`, the default production branch is set to `main`. Change
it if your default branch is different (*e.g.*: `master`).

Then, you are asked if you want to set the local remote to your new
project. Enter \*\*Yes (y)\*\*. Your local source code is automatically
linked to your newly created Upsun project through the creation of a
\`.upsun/local/project.yaml\` file. This file contains the corresponding
\`\` and sets a Git remote to \`upsun\`. In this guide, you will push
your local repository to Upsun. That is, the only copy of your codebase
you\'d like to deploy is on your local computer.

### Git integrations

This guide does not specifically address integrating an Upsun project
with a third party repository such as one on GitHub, even though you
will notice the **Connect repository** option available at this stage.

For now, continue to work locally. Third party integrations will be
addressed at the end of this guide.

So long as you chose \`y\` (yes) to the question \`Set the new project
as the remote for this repository?\` during the \`project:create\`
command, your local project is already integrated to the Upsun project.

Back

Configure your project

#Forward {{% vendor/name %}} and Blackfire logs You might use a service
to analyze logs from various parts of your fleet. You might want to
consolidate all your logs in one place that everyone has access to
without needing to grant them access to each project individually. In
such cases, forward your logs from Upsun and Blackfire to a third-party
service. You can use a \[service with an
integration\](#use-a-log-forwarding-integration) or any service that
supports a \[syslog endpoint\](#forward-to-a-syslog-endpoint) or \[HTTP
endpoint\](#forward-to-an-http-endpoint). Logs to \`stdout\` and
\`stderr\` are forwarded. Logs in files can\'t be forwarded. To enable
log forwarding in a project, you need to be a \[project
admin\](../../administration/users.md). You also need your project to
have the capability for log forwarding. To get a price quote, \[contact
Sales\](https://platform.sh/contact/). \## Use a log forwarding
integration Certain services have a specific integration for forwarding
logs. If your third-party service isn\'t supported, you can forward to a
\[syslog endpoint\](#forward-to-a-syslog-endpoint). \### Integrated
third-party services Integrations exist for the following third-party
services to enable log forwarding: - \[New
Relic\](https://newrelic.com/) - \[Splunk\](https://www.splunk.com/) -
\[Sumo Logic\](https://www.sumologic.com/) \### Enable a log forwarding
integration \#### Using the CLI To enable log forwarding for a specific
project using the \[Upsun CLI\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md),
follow the steps for your selected service.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   New Relic
-   Splunk
-   Sumo Logic

1.  Get an API key from New Relic. You need a [license
    key](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#license-key).
    Your New Relic organization likely has one, but you can create one
    by following the New Relic docs.

2.  Choose an API endpoint. You can use the U.S. endpoint
    `https://log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1` or the EU endpoint
    `https://log-api.eu.newrelic.com/log/v1`.

3.  Create the integration with the following command:

    `upsun integration:add --type newrelic --url API_ENDPOINT --license-key LICENSE_KEY`

View your logs in the **Logs** dashboard.

1.  In Splunk, get an Event Collector token on [Splunk
    Platform](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Data/UsetheHTTPEventCollector#Create_an_Event_Collector_token_on_Splunk_Cloud_Platform)
    or [Splunk
    Enterprise](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Data/UsetheHTTPEventCollector#Create_an_Event_Collector_token_on_Splunk_Enterprise).

2.  Determine your host, which is the Splunk instance that's collecting
    data.

3.  Choose an index name.

4.  Create the integration with the following command:

    `upsun integration:add --type splunk --url https://http-inputs.HOST.splunkcloud.com/services/collector/event --index INDEX --token TOKEN`

View your logs in the **Apps-\>Search & Reporting** dashboard. Filter by
the index name to find the relevant events.

1.  In Sumo Logic, [configure an HTTP
    source](https://help-opensource.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/http-source/logs-metrics/#configure-an-httplogs-and-metrics-source).
    Make sure to copy the Source Category and collector URL.

2.  Create the integration with the following command:

    `upsun integration:add --type sumologic --url COLLECTOR_URL --category SOURCE_CATEGORY`

View your logs in the **Log Search** tab.

To start forwarding logs, \[trigger a
redeploy\](../../development/troubleshoot.md#force-a-redeploy). \#### In
the Console To enable log forwarding for a specific project from the
Console, follow these steps: 1. Navigate to your project. 2. Click
![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
\*\*Settings\*\*. 3. Click \*\*Integrations\*\*. 4. Click \*\*Add
Integration\*\*. 5. Select the integration you want to enable. 6. In the
\*\*Configure your integration\*\* window, specify your configuration
options. 7. Click \*\*Add Integration\*\*. The new integration overview
is displayed, and you can view your logs in the \*\*Activity\*\*
section. \## Forward to a syslog endpoint Syslog is a standard protocol
for transferring log messages. Many third-party services offer endpoints
for ingesting syslog events. You can forward your Upsun and Blackfire
logs to any of those endpoints.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

To enable log forwarding to a syslog endpoint, run a command similar to
the following:

`upsun integration:add --type syslog --syslog-host INGESTION_HOST --syslog-port INGESTION_HOST_PORT`

`type`, `syslog-host`, and `syslog-port` are the only properties
required for all endpoints. The following table shows the other
available properties:

  Property           Type        Default      Description
  ------------------ ----------- ------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `auth-token`       `string`                 The token to authenticate with the given service.
  `auth-mode`        `string`    `prefix`     The mode for authentication with the given service. Can be `prefix` or `structured_data`. Defaults to `prefix`.
  `facility`         `string`    `1` (user)   A [syslog facility code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog#Facility) to attach with each log to identify the source. Can be a number from 0 to 23.
  `message-format`   `string`    `rfc5424`    The standard to use for the message format. Can be `rfc5424` or `rfc3164`.
  `protocol`         `string`    `tls`        The network protocol to use in the connection. Can be one of `tls`, `tcp`, or `udp`. Defaults to `tls`.
  `verify-tls`       `boolean`   `true`       Whether to verify Transport Layer Security (TLS) certification when using the TLS protocol.

To include a property, add it as a flag, for example `--protocol tcp`.
This should let you connect to any service that has syslog endpoints.

To start forwarding logs, once you've added the service [trigger a
redeploy](/development/troubleshoot.html#force-a-redeploy).

To enable log forwarding to a syslog endpoint for a specific project
using the Upsun CLI, follow these steps:

1.  Navigate to your project.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
3.  Click **Integrations**.
4.  Click **Add Integration**.
5.  Select the syslog integration.
6.  In the **Configure your integration** window, specify your
    configuration options.
7.  Click **Add Integration**. The new integration overview is
    displayed, and you can view your logs in the **Activity** section.

\## Forward to an HTTP endpoint Some third-party services, such as
\[Elasticsearch\](../../add-services/elasticsearch.md) and
\[OpenSearch\](../../add-services/opensearch.md), support ingesting log
messages through an HTTP endpoint. You can use HTTP forwarding to
forward Upsun and Blackfire logs to such third-party services. HTTP
forwarding makes a \`POST\` HTTP request with an \`application/json\`
body while forwarding the log messages to the endpoint. As an example,
to forward logs to Elasticsearch using HTTP log forwarding, run the
following command: \`\`\` upsun integration:add \--type httplog \--url
\"https://ELASTICSEARCH_URL/INDEX_NAME/\_doc\" \--header
\"Authorization: Basic \" \--header \"Content-Type: application/json\"
\`\`\` \`type\` and \`url\` are the only properties required for all
endpoints. Optionally, you can use the \`headers\` property to pass
additional headers in the HTTP requests. Note that if your endpoint URL
includes a \`PORT\`, that can also be included in the \`\--url\` flag:
\`\`\` upsun integration:add \--type httplog \--url
\"https://ELASTICSEARCH_URL:PORT/INDEX_NAME/\_doc\" \--header
\"Authorization: Basic \" \--header \"Content-Type: application/json\"
\`\`\` Once you\'ve \[added the
service\](../../add-services/\_index.md), to start forwarding logs
\[trigger a
redeploy\](../../development/troubleshoot.md#force-a-redeploy). \## Log
levels Your app may output logs with distinct severity levels. But as
Plaform.sh only reads logs from \`stdout\`, this distinction is lost and
everything gets logged at \`INFO\` level. To preserve the original log
level, use a language-specific syslog module/package for logging. The
following example code snippets show how logs can be written to Syslog:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   PHP
-   Python
-   Go

`openlog("", LOG_PID, LOG_LOCAL0); syslog(LOG_INFO, "Operation started"); syslog(LOG_ERR, "Operation failed"); closelog();`

Using the logging module:

`import logging import logging.handlers logger = logging.getLogger(__name__) logger.setLevel(logging.DEBUG) handler = logging.handlers.SysLogHandler(address="/dev/log") logger.addHandler(handler) logger.info("Operation started") logger.error("Operation failed")`

Using the Syslog module:

`import syslog syslog.openlog(logoption=syslog.LOG_PID, facility=syslog.LOG_LOCAL0) syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_INFO, "Operation started") syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_ERR, "Operation failed") syslog.closelog()`

Using the log package:

`package main import ( "log" "log/syslog" ) func main() { logger, err := syslog.NewLogger(syslog.LOG_LOCAL0|syslog.LOG_INFO, log.LstdFlags) if err != nil { panic(err) } logger.Println("Operation started...") logger.Fatalln("Operation failed") }`

Using the Syslog package:

`package main import ( "fmt" "log" "log/syslog" ) func main() { syslogWriter, err := syslog.Dial("", "", syslog.LOG_LOCAL0|syslog.LOG_INFO, "") if err != nil { log.Fatal(err) } defer syslogWriter.Close() fmt.Fprintf(syslogWriter, "Operation has started") syslogWriter.Err("Operation failed") }`
#JavaScript/Node.js When dealing with Javascript/Node.js stacks, the
information below may help customize your configuration. These sections
provide Javascript/Node.js-specific configuration details, but you can
also refer to the common Upsun documentation: - \[Configuring
applications\](/create-apps) - \[Setting up managed
services\](/add-services) - \[Handling requests\](/define-routes) \##
Build flavors By default, Upsun makes assumptions about how you want to
build your application. Namely, that you are managing your dependencies
with npm, and that the very first thing you\'d like to run is a
particular and common production flavor of \`npm install\`. This is
called a build \`flavor\`, but its assumption may prove inappropriate
for your application and cause your builds to fail (such as if you\'d
like to use yarn or bun instead of npm). Therefore, you can \[disable
this feature\](/languages/nodejs#dependencies). \## Available package
managers Certain package managers come pre-installed on all Upsun
\`nodejs\` container types: \* \*npm\*; example: \`\`npm install
platformsh-config\`\` \* \*npx\*; example: \`\`npx create-strapi-app
\`\` \* \*bun\*; example: \`\`bun install platformsh-config\`\` You can
also use Yarn if you \[install it
explicitly\](/languages/nodejs#use-yarn-as-a-package-manager), or
\[nvm\](/languages/nodejs/node-version.md#use-nvm). \## Sample
configuration Below are some examples from common Node.js framework
configuration:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Next.js
-   Express
-   Strapi

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: source: root: "/" type: "nodejs:20" web: commands: start: "npx next start -p $PORT" build: flavor: none dependencies: nodejs: sharp: "*" #services: # db: # type: postgresql:15 routes: "https://{default}/": type: upstream upstream: "myapp:http" # A basic redirect definition # More information: https://docs.upsun.com/define-routes.html#basic-redirect-definition "https://www.{default}/": type: redirect to: "https://{default}/"`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: source: root: "/" type: "nodejs:20" web: commands: start: "node index.js" build: flavor: none dependencies: nodejs: sharp: "*" #services: # db: # type: postgresql:14 routes: "https://{default}/": type: upstream upstream: "myapp:http" # A basic redirect definition # More information: https://docs.upsun.com/define-routes.html#basic-redirect-definition "https://www.{default}/": type: redirect to: "https://{default}/"`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: source: root: "/" type: "nodejs:20" relationships: postgresql: mounts: ... web: commands: start: "NODE_ENV=production yarn start" build: flavor: none dependencies: nodejs: yarn: "^1.22.0" hooks: build: | set -eux yarn yarn build services: postgresql: type: postgresql:15 routes: "https://{default}/": type: upstream upstream: "myapp:http" # A basic redirect definition # More information: https://docs.upsun.com/define-routes.html#basic-redirect-definition "https://www.{default}/": type: redirect to: "https://{default}/"`
\## Frameworks The Upsun documentation includes a wide array of
community resources to help with framework-specific configuration: -
\[Express\](/get-started/stacks/express) -
\[Next.js\](/get-started/stacks/nextjs) -
\[Strapi\](/get-started/stacks/strapi) \## Get support While there are
virtually no restrictions to you deploying any kind of application on
Upsun, configuration may still be unclear at this point. Not to worry!
The Upsun community is here to help. Come and say hello, share your
work, ask for help, and peek in on what others are working on. Welcome
to the Upsun community! Join us on Discord Ask a question on the forum

#Pull code from a private Git repository To complete its build, your
Upsun project may need to access pieces of code stored in private Git
repositories. Examples include themes, libraries, and modules. Configure
these repositories to grant access to your project. To grant access to a
private Git repository, add the project\'s public SSH key to your Git
repository\'s deploy keys. \## 1. Get your project\'s public key 1. In
the Console, open the project you want. 2. Click
\*\*![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
Settings\*\*. 3. Under \*\*Project settings\*\*, click \*\*Deploy
key\*\*. 4. Click
\*\*![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
Copy\*\*. \![Deploy
Key\](/images/management-console/settings-deploy-key.png \"0.5\") \## 2.
Add the key to your repository in your Git provider \* \[GitHub deploy
key\](https://docs.github.com/en/developers/overview/managing-deploy-keys#deploy-keys)
\* \[GitLab deploy
key\](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/deploy_keys/#grant-project-access-to-a-public-deploy-key)
\* \[Bitbucket access
key\](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/configure-repository-settings/)
If you\'re only pulling code, the key doesn\'t need write permissions.
Now your Upsun project can access your private repository via SSH,
including to add dependencies. This means you can access the private
repository through links like:
`git@GIT_PROVIDER:PATH_OR_USERNAME/REPOSITORY.git`. For example, you can
clone a repository in your \[\`build\`
hook\](../create-apps/hooks/\_index.md): \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
APP_NAME: hooks: build: \| set -e git clone
git@bitbucket.org:username/module.git \`\`\` You can also use \[private
repositories as
submodules\](./submodules.md#use-private-git-repositories). \## Using
multiple private GitHub repositories GitHub requires a separate deploy
key for each repository. To grant your project access to multiple
repositories, create an automated user account, known as a machine user,
with its own SSH key. You can then add the machine account as
collaborator to specific repositories or to a team with access to the
repositories. See more information about \[machine users on
GitHub\](https://docs.github.com/en/developers/overview/managing-deploy-keys#machine-users).
#RabbitMQ (message queue service)
\[RabbitMQ\](https://www.rabbitmq.com/documentation.html) is a message
broker that supports multiple messaging protocols, such as the Advanced
Message Queuing Protocol (AMQP). It gives your apps a common platform to
send and receive messages and your messages a safe place to live until
they\'re received. \## Supported versions You can select the major and
minor version. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and
the like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest available
patches.

-   3.13
-   3.12

\### Deprecated versions The following versions are
\[deprecated\](/glossary.html#deprecated-versions). They\'re available,
but they aren\'t receiving security updates from upstream and aren\'t
guaranteed to work. They\'ll be removed in the future, so migrate to one
of the \[supported versions\](#supported-versions).

-   3.11
-   3.10
-   3.9
-   3.8
-   3.7
-   3.6
-   3.5

\## Relationship reference For each service \[defined via a
relationship\](#usage-example) to your application, Upsun automatically
generates corresponding environment variables within your application
container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format. Here is example information
available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`RABBITMQ_USERNAME=guest RABBITMQ_SCHEME=amqp RABBITMQ_SERVICE=rabbitmq RABBITMQ_FRAGMENT= RABBITMQ_EPOCH=0 RABBITMQ_IP=123.456.78.90 RABBITMQ_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.rabbitmq.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site RABBITMQ_PORT=5672 RABBITMQ_CLUSTER=azertyuiop-main-afdwftq RABBITMQ_HOST=rabbitmq.internal RABBITMQ_REL=rabbitmq RABBITMQ_PATH= RABBITMQ_QUERY={} RABBITMQ_PASSWORD=ChangeMe RABBITMQ_TYPE=rabbitmq:3.13 RABBITMQ_PUBLIC=false RABBITMQ_HOST_MAPPED=false`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "username": "guest", "scheme": "amqp", "service": "rabbitmq", "fragment": null, "ip": "123.456.78.90", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.rabbitmq.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "port": 5672, "cluster": "azertyuiopqsdf-main-afdwftq", "host": "rabbitmq.internal", "rel": "rabbitmq", "path": null, "query": [], "password": "ChangeMe", "type": "rabbitmq:3.13", "public": false, "host_mapped": false }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_RABBITMQ_HOST="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.rabbitmq[0].host')"`
\## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`\`rabbitmq\`\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of
the service container. Must be unique within a project. : type:
rabbitmq: \`\`\` Note that changing the name of the service replaces it
with a brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back up your
data before changing the service. \### 2. Define the relationship To
define the relationship, use the following configuration:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the *name* of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container (`<APP_NAME>`) now
has access to the service via the relationship `<SERVICE_NAME>` and its
corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: rabbitmq`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

\### Example configuration

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: rabbitmq>: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. rabbitmq: type: rabbitmq:3.13`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: rabbitmq: service: rabbitmq endpoint: rabbitmq services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. rabbitmq: type: rabbitmq:3.13`
\### Use in app To use the configured service in your app, add a
configuration file similar to the following to your project.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: rabbitmq: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. rabbitmq: type: rabbitmq:3.13`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: rabbitmq: service: rabbitmq endpoint: rabbitmq services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. rabbitmq: type: rabbitmq:3.13`
This configuration defines a single application (\`myapp\`), whose
source code exists in the \`/myapp\` directory. \`myapp\` has access to
the \`rabbitmq\` service, via a relationship whose name is \[identical
to the service name\](#2-define-the-relationship) (as per \[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships). From this, \`\`myapp\`\` can retrieve
access credentials to the service through the \[relationship environment
variables\](#relationship-reference). \`\`\`bash {} \# Set environment
variables for individual credentials. \# For more information, please
visit
https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables.
export QUEUE_SCHEME=\${RABBITMQ_SCHEME} export
QUEUE_USERNAME=\${RABBITMQ_USERNAME} export
QUEUE_PASSWORD=\${RABBITMQ_PASSWORD} export QUEUE_HOST=\${RABBITMQ_HOST}
export QUEUE_PORT=\${RABBITMQ_PORT} \# Set a single RabbitMQ connection
string variable for AMQP. export
AMQP_URL=\"\${QUEUE_SCHEME}://\${QUEUE_USERNAME}:\${QUEUE_PASSWORD}@\${QUEUE_HOST}:\${QUEUE_PORT}/\"
\`\`\` The above file --- \`\`.environment\`\` in the \`\`myapp\`\`
directory --- is automatically sourced by Upsun into the runtime
environment, so that the variable \`\`AMQP_URL\`\` can be used within
the application to connect to the service. Note that \`\`AMQP_URL\`\`,
and all Upsun \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
like \`\`RABBITMQ_HOST\`\`, are environment-dependent. Unlike the build
produced for a given commit, they can't be reused across environments
and only allow your app to connect to a single service instance on a
single environment. A file very similar to this is generated
automatically for your when using the \`\`upsun ify\`\` command to
\[migrate a codebase to Upsun\](/get-started/\_index.md). \## Connect to
RabbitMQ When debugging, you may want to connect directly to your
RabbitMQ service. You can connect in multiple ways: - An \[SSH
tunnel\](#via-ssh) - A \[web interface\](#access-the-management-ui) In
each case, you need the login credentials that you can obtain from the
\[relationship\](#relationship-reference). \### Via SSH To connect
directly to your RabbitMQ service in an environment, open an SSH tunnel
with the \[Upsun CLI\](../administration/cli/\_index.md). To open an SSH
tunnel to your service with port forwarding, run the following command:
\`\`\`bash upsun tunnel:single \--gateway-ports \`\`\` Then configure a
RabbitMQ client to connect to this tunnel using the credentials from the
\[relationship\](#relationship-reference). See a \[list of RabbitMQ
client libraries\](https://www.rabbitmq.com/devtools.html). \### Access
the management UI RabbitMQ offers a \[management plugin with a
browser-based UI\](https://www.rabbitmq.com/management.html). You can
access this UI with an SSH tunnel. To open a tunnel, follow these
steps. 1. SSH into your app container with a flag for local port
forwarding: 2. \`\`\`bash ssh \$(upsun ssh \--pipe) -L
15672:RELATIONSHIP_NAME.internal:15672 \`\`\` RELATIONSHIP_NAME is the
\[name you defined\](#2-define-the-relationship). 2. Open
\`http://localhost:15672\` in your browser. Log in using the username
and password from the \[relationship\](#relationship-reference). \##
Configuration options You can configure your RabbitMQ service in the
\[services configuration\](#1-configure-the-service) with the following
options: \| Name \| Type \| Required \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`vhosts\` \| List of \`string\`s \| No \| Virtual hosts used for
logically grouping resources. \| You can configure additional \[virtual
hosts\](https://www.rabbitmq.com/vhosts.html), which can be useful for
separating resources, such as exchanges, queues, and bindings, into
their own namespaces. To create virtual hosts, add them to your
configuration as in the following example: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \#
The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project.
rabbitmq: type: \"rabbitmq:3.13\" configuration: vhosts: - host1 - host2
\`\`\` \## Upgrading When upgrading RabbitMQ, skipping major versions
(e.g. 3.7 -\> 3.11) \[is not
supported\](https://www.rabbitmq.com/upgrade.html#rabbitmq-version-upgradability).
Make sure you upgrade sequentially (3.7 -\> 3.8 -\> 3.9 -\> 3.10 -\>
3.11) and that each upgrade commit translates into an actual deployment.
#Server upgrades Upsun runs a variety of servers to deliver its
services. To ensure your projects get the newest features, these servers
are occasionally updated. You don\'t have to do anything to get the
updates. When they\'re ready for your project, you see an activity about
the server being updated in your \[activity
logs\](../increase-observability/logs/access-logs.md#activity-logs).
These activities don\'t cause downtime for your project. The log of the
specific activity includes a description of what has changed with the
update. \## Affected servers \### Project API server The project API
server responds to API calls to make the CLI and Console work for your
project. It acts as the Git server, mirroring the source repository in
the case of \[source integrations\](../integrations/source/\_index.md).
It stores your app code and project configuration, provides API
interfaces, and orchestrates the build and deploy process and other
tasks for your environments. \### Project metrics server The project
metrics server retrieves information about your environments\' use of
RAM, CPU, and disk. You can view this information as part of
\[environment metrics\](../increase-observability/metrics/\_index.md).
#Use Git submodules \## Clone submodules during deployment Upsun allows
you to use submodules in your Git repository. They\'re usually listed in
a \`.gitmodules\` file at the root of your Git repository. When you push
via Git, Upsun tries to clone them automatically.

Say you have a multi-app project that includes the following submodules:

-   A BigFoot app
-   An API Platform v3, Admin component
-   A Gatsby frontend
-   A Mercure Rocks server

To import all the submodules, run the following commands from your
multiple application project\'s root folder: \`\`\`bash touch
.gitmodules git submodule add \--name admin
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-admin.git admin
git submodule add \--name api
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-api.git api git
submodule add \--name gatsby
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-gatsby.git
gatsby git submodule add \--name mercure
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-mercure.git
mercure git add . git commit -m \"Adding submodules for Bigfoot App, API
Platform Admin, Gatsby frontend and Mercure Rocks server\" git push
\`\`\` Here is an example of a \`.gitmodules\` file: \`\`\`ini
\[submodule \"admin\"\] path = admin url =
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-admin.git
\[submodule \"api\"\] path = api url =
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-api.git
\[submodule \"gatsby\"\] path = gatsby url =
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-gatsby.git
\[submodule \"mercure\"\] path = mercure url =
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-mercure.git
\`\`\` When you run \`git push\`, you can see the output of the logs:
\`\`\`bash Validating submodules Updating submodule
ttps://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-admin.git
Updated submodule
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-admin.git: 549
references updated. Updating submodule
ttps://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-api.git Updated
submodule
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-api.git: 898
references updated. Updating submodule
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-gatsby.git
Updated submodule
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-gatsby.git: 257
references updated. Updating submodule
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-mercure.git
Updated submodule
https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-mercure.git:
124 references updated. \... \`\`\`

### Note

If your submodule contains an independent app, see [how to configure it
properly](/create-apps/multi-app/project-structure.html#split-your-code-source-into-multiple-git-submodule-repositories).

\## Update submodules

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Manual update
-   Automated update

When you amend your submodules' code, make sure your changes are applied
by running the following commands before redeploying:

`git submodule update --remote [submodule] Submodule path 'admin': checked out 'a020894cf94de6e79748890c942206bc7af752af' Submodule path 'api': checked out 'dce6617cc2db159c1a871112909e9ea4121135ec' Submodule path 'gatsby': checked out '012ab16b05f474278ad0f9916e1cb94fc9df5ba4' Submodule path 'mercure': checked out '94ccae5055983004aa8ab2c17b1daabd0c0a4927'`

### Note

To specify which submodule needs to be updated, replace `[submodule]`
with your submodule path.

Automate your submodule updates using a source operation. To do so,
follow these steps:

1.  Define a source operation. Add the following configuration to your
    `.upsun/config.yaml` file:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: source: operations: rebuild: command: | set -e git submodule update --init --recursive git submodule update --remote --checkout git add admin api gatsby mercure if ! git diff-index --quiet HEAD; then git commit -m "Updating submodules admin, api, gatsby and mercure" fi `

For multiple app projects, make sure you define your source operation in
the configuration of an app whose source code **is not** in a submodule.

If you use [Git submodules for each of your
apps](/create-apps/multi-app/project-structure.html#split-your-code-source-into-multiple-git-submodule-repositories),
define a new app at the top level of your project repository. Don't
define routes so your app isn't exposed to the web. To define a source
operation, add the following configuration to your app configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. update-submodule: # The type of the application to build. type: 'nodejs:22' # The web key configures the web server running in front of your app. web: # Commands are run once after deployment to start the application process. commands: # The command to launch your app. If it terminates, it’s restarted immediately. # As this app will handle source operation only, no need to keep it alive (sleep) start: | sleep infinity source: operations: update-submodules: command: | set -e git submodule update --init --recursive git submodule update --remote --checkout git add . if ! git diff-index --quiet HEAD; then git commit -m "Updating submodules" fi # "git push" is automatic at the end of this command `

1.  Run your source operation.

    To do so, in the Console, navigate to the environment where you want
    to run the source operation. Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTIgNi41QzEyLjgyODQgNi41IDEzLjUgNS44Mjg0MyAxMy41IDVDMTMuNSA0LjE3MTU3IDEyLjgyODQgMy41IDEyIDMuNUMxMS4xNzE2IDMuNSAxMC41IDQuMTcxNTcgMTAuNSA1QzEwLjUgNS44Mjg0MyAxMS4xNzE2IDYuNSAxMiA2LjVaIiAvPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDEzLjVDMTIuODI4NCAxMy41IDEzLjUgMTIuODI4NCAxMy41IDEyQzEzLjUgMTEuMTcxNiAxMi44Mjg0IDEwLjUgMTIgMTAuNUMxMS4xNzE2IDEwLjUgMTAuNSAxMS4xNzE2IDEwLjUgMTJDMTAuNSAxMi44Mjg0IDExLjE3MTYgMTMuNSAxMiAxMy41WiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    **More**. Click **Run Source Operation**. Select the operation you
    want to run. Click **Run**.

    Alternatively, to run your source operation from the Upsun CLI, run
    the following command:

    `upsun source-operation:run SOURCE_OPERATION_NAME`

\## Error when validating submodules Using an SSH URL
(\`git@github.com:\...\`) to fetch submodules triggers the following
error: \`\`\`bash Validating submodules. Found unresolvable links,
updating submodules. E: Error validating submodules in tree: - admin:
Exception: commit 03567c6 not found. This might be due to the following
errors fetching submodules: -
git@github.com:platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp-admin.git:
HangupException: The remote server unexpectedly closed the connection.
\`\`\` This is due to the fact that the Upsun Git server can\'t connect
to GitHub via SSH without being granted an SSH key to do so. To solve
this issue, use an HTTPS URL (\`https://github.com/\...\`) instead. \##
Use private Git repositories When using Git submodules that are private
repositories, URLs with the HTTPS protocol fail with errors such as the
following: \`\`\`bash GitProtocolError: unexpected http resp 401 for
https://bitbucket.org/myusername/mymodule.git/info/refs?service=git-upload-pack
\`\`\` To fix this, follow these steps: 1. Change your module
declarations to use SSH for URLs. Your existing declaration might look
like this: \`\`\`bash {} \[submodule \"support/module\"\] path =
support/module url = https://bitbucket.org/username/module.git branch =
submodule/branch \`\`\` Change this to the following: \`\`\`bash {}
\[submodule \"support/module\"\] path = support/module url =
git@bitbucket.org:username/module.git branch = submodule/branch \`\`\`
2. Add the \[project\'s public key to your remote Git
repository\](./private-repository.md). This allows your Upsun project to
pull the repository from the remote Git service.

### Note

Deploy keys only grant access to a single repository, which can cause
issues when attempting to pull several repositories to the same server.
If your server needs access to multiple repositories, follow these
steps:

1.  [Create a machine
    user](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/managing-deploy-keys#machine-users)
    with access rights to each of the private repositories.
2.  Attach the deploy key to your machine user.

\## Removing submodules These steps aren\'t specific to Upsun, but kept
as a reference for Git so that submodules are effectively removed before
entering the build process. 1. In your \`.gitmodules\` and
\`.git/config\` files, delete the information related to the submodule
you want to remove. \`\`\`bash git submodule deinit -f path_to_submodule
\`\`\` 2. Stage changes to \`.gitmodules\`: \`\`\`bash git add
.gitmodules \`\`\` 3. Remove the submodule from the repository (without
trailing slash): \`\`\`bash git rm \--cached path_to_submodule \`\`\` 4.
Remove the submodule files in \`.git\` from the repository (without
trailing slash): \`\`\`bash rm -rf .git/modules/path_to_submodule \`\`\`
5. Commit the changes: \`\`\`bash git commit -m \"Removed submodule.\"
\`\`\` 6. Remove the submodule code locally, now no longer tracked:
\`\`\`bash rm -rf path_to_submodule \`\`\` #Regions Upsun offers several
regions for hosting project data. You can choose a region based on
criteria such as its closeness to your users and its environmental
impact.

### Upcoming changes!

On **17 March 2025**, outbound IPs on **all GCP and Azure regions** will
change. These upcoming changes will affect **outbound IPs** for all GCP
and Azure regions, and will require your intervention if your are using
public IP addresses explicitly.

Please see [the documentation](#upcoming-changes) below for details and
relevant deadlines.

\## Environmental impact At Upsun, we are committed to reducing our
environmental impact. Whenever you create a project with us, we provide
information about the electricity grid provider for that region. You can
view the average carbon intensity of the energy grid in grams of CO2
equivalent per kilowatt-hour. These data are sourced from an annual
average, which we update as new information becomes available. If you
want to see real-time emissions generated by each power grid, we
recommend checking out \[Electricity
Maps\](https://app.electricitymap.org/map). You can also access a public
GitHub page of Electricity Maps \[data
sources\](https://github.com/electricitymap/electricitymap-contrib/blob/master/DATA_SOURCES.md).
Summary of data being used in Upsun's Region Picker when creating a new
Project: \| Source \| Last update of this page \| Previous versions of
this page \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| Electricity Maps 2022 annual averages (previous to May 2023, we had
used annual averages from the IEA).\
See our \[blog
post\](https://platform.sh/blog/platformsh-is-now-using-annual-carbon-intensities-from-electricity-maps/)
for more information.\| 11 May 2023 \| Available
\[here\](https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs/commits/main/docs/src/development/regions.md)
\| Information on carbon intensity is also available in the Upsun API.
For example, to get a list of the regions and their carbon intensities,
run the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun api:curl regions \| jq -r
\'.regions\[\] \| select(.available != false) \| .label + \": \" +
.environmental_impact.carbon_intensity\' \`\`\` See all available
information in the \[API
documentation\](https://api.platform.sh/docs/#tag/Regions). \### Greener
Region Discount You can get a 3% discount on your resource usage if you
host your project in one of Upsun\'s eco-friendly regions: - Quebec,
Canada (\`ca-central-1\`), - Stockholm, Sweden (\`eu-north-1\`), -
Paris, France (\`francecentral\`), - OVH (\`gra7\`), - Quincy,
Washington (\`westus2\`), - Zurich, Switzerland (\`europe-west6\`). The
3% discount covers application CPU, application memory, service CPU,
service memory, and build resources. It \*\*doesn't\*\* apply to the
project fee or other billing aspects. It can be combined with other
offers or discounts. See \[more information on the greener region
discount\](https://platform.sh/company/press/a-first-for-cloud-industry-platformsh-greener-region-discount/).
\## Region availability The regions listed here may be different from
those available to you when you create a new project. Each organization
can have its own rules for what regions to allow. When adding a new
project, you only see regions allowed by your organization. \## Region
location To find out where a given region is hosted, use the following
command: \`\`\` bash upsun api:curl regions \| jq \'.regions\[\] \|
select(.available != false) \| .id + \": \" + .provider.name + \" - \" +
.zone + \" - \" + .timezone\' \| sort \`\`\` The returned list contains,
for each available region, its name, provider, geographic zone and its
timezone. \## Public IP addresses The public IP addresses for regions
are stable, but not guaranteed to never change. Before any change, you
are notified well in advance regarding affected projects. Planned and
upcoming changes to IPs will be documented in the \[\*\*Upcoming
changes\*\*\](#upcoming-changes) section below. They\'re useful for
cases such as when you have a corporate firewall that blocks outgoing
SSH connections. In such cases, add the inbound IP addresses for your
region to your allow list. \## Regions \### Europe

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound IPs |
|             |             | to new orgs | IPs         |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | Google      | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| ####        | Cloud       | ✅          |             | .ch-1.platf |
| [Switzerlan | Platform    |             | -   34      | ormsh.site` |
| d (ch-1)](# |             |             | .65.236.213 |             |
| switzerland |             |             | -   3       | -   34      |
| -ch-1-ch-1) |             |             | 4.65.152.61 | .65.236.213 |
|             |             |             | -   34      | -   3       |
| `ch-1       |             |             | .65.244.185 | 4.65.152.61 |
| .upsun.com` |             |             |             | -   34      |
|             |             |             |             | .65.244.185 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | Google      | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| #### [Ge    | Cloud       | ✅          |             | .de-2.platf |
| rmany (de-2 | Platform    |             | -   35.     | ormsh.site` |
| )](#germany |             |             | 246.248.138 |             |
| -de-2-de-2) |             |             | -   35      | -   35.     |
|             |             |             | .246.184.45 | 246.248.138 |
| `de-2       |             |             | -   35.     | -   35      |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | 242.229.239 | .246.184.45 |
|             |             |             |             | -   35.     |
|             |             |             |             | 242.229.239 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | AWS         | to new orgs | ips         | `           |
| ##          |             | ✅          |             | gw.eu.platf |
| ## [Ireland |             |             | -   5       | ormsh.site` |
|  (eu)](#ire |             |             | 4.72.94.105 |             |
| land-eu-eu) |             |             | -   5       | -   5       |
|             |             |             | 4.76.137.67 | 4.76.137.79 |
| `eu         |             |             | -   5       | -   54      |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | 4.76.137.94 | .76.136.188 |
|             |             |             |             | -   54      |
|             |             |             |             | .76.137.151 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | AWS         | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| #### [      |             | ✅          |             | .eu-5.platf |
| Sweden (eu- |             |             | -   1       | ormsh.site` |
| 5)](#sweden |             |             | 3.48.116.14 |             |
| -eu-5-eu-5) |             |             | -           | -           |
|             |             |             | 13.51.46.87 | 13.51.62.86 |
| `eu-5       |             |             | -   1       |             |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | 3.48.202.56 |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | OVHcloud    | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| #### [      |             | ✅          |             | .fr-3.platf |
| France (fr- |             |             | -   135     | ormsh.site` |
| 3)](#france |             |             | .125.91.125 |             |
| -fr-3-fr-3) |             |             | -   13      | -   94      |
|             |             |             | 5.125.89.47 | .23.123.122 |
| `fr-3       |             |             | -   135     |             |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | .125.90.255 |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | Azure       | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| #### [      |             | ✅          |             | .fr-4.platf |
| France (fr- |             |             | -   2       | ormsh.site` |
| 4)](#france |             |             | 0.74.41.190 |             |
| -fr-4-fr-4) |             |             | -   2       | -   2       |
|             |             |             | 0.74.41.218 | 0.74.41.190 |
| `fr-4       |             |             | -           | -   2       |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | 20.74.42.30 | 0.74.41.218 |
|             |             |             |             | -           |
|             |             |             |             | 20.74.42.30 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | Google      | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| #### [Unite | Cloud       | ✅          |             | .uk-1.platf |
| d Kingdom ( | Platform    |             | -   35.     | ormsh.site` |
| uk-1)](#uni |             |             | 242.142.110 |             |
| ted-kingdom |             |             | -   35.     | -   35.     |
| -uk-1-uk-1) |             |             | 189.126.202 | 242.142.110 |
|             |             |             | -   35.     | -   35.     |
| `uk-1       |             |             | 242.183.249 | 189.126.202 |
| .upsun.com` |             |             |             | -   35.     |
|             |             |             |             | 242.183.249 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | AWS         | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| #### [Ir    |             |             |             | .eu-2.platf |
| eland (eu-2 |             |             | -   5       | ormsh.site` |
| )](#ireland |             |             | 2.208.123.9 |             |
| -eu-2-eu-2) |             |             | -   5       | -   34      |
|             |             |             | 2.214.63.84 | .248.104.12 |
| `eu-2       |             |             | -   52      | -   34.     |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | .30.200.164 | 241.191.143 |
|             |             |             |             | -   52      |
|             |             |             |             | .210.208.94 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | AWS         | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| #### [Ir    |             |             |             | .eu-4.platf |
| eland (eu-4 |             |             | -   18.     | ormsh.site` |
| )](#ireland |             |             | 200.158.188 |             |
| -eu-4-eu-4) |             |             | -   18.     | -   52      |
|             |             |             | 200.157.200 | .215.88.119 |
| `eu-4       |             |             | -   18.     | -   52      |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | 200.184.206 | .208.179.40 |
|             |             |             |             | -   18.     |
|             |             |             |             | 200.179.139 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | Orange      | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| #### [      |             |             |             | .fr-1.platf |
| France (fr- |             |             | -   9       | ormsh.site` |
| 1)](#france |             |             | 0.84.46.222 |             |
| -fr-1-fr-1) |             |             | -   9       | -           |
|             |             |             | 0.84.47.148 | 90.84.46.40 |
| `fr-1       |             |             | -           | -   9       |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | 90.84.46.40 | 0.84.47.148 |
|             |             |             |             | -   9       |
|             |             |             |             | 0.84.46.222 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

\### United States

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound IPs |
|             |             | to new orgs | IPs         |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | AWS         | to new orgs | ips         | `           |
| #### [E     |             | ✅          |             | gw.us.platf |
| ast (us)](# |             |             | -   5       | ormsh.site` |
| east-us-us) |             |             | 4.88.149.31 |             |
|             |             |             | -   54      | -   54      |
| `us         |             |             | .209.114.37 | .210.49.244 |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | -   5       | -   54      |
|             |             |             | 4.210.53.51 | .88.225.116 |
|             |             |             |             | -   54      |
|             |             |             |             | .210.55.162 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | AWS         | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| ##          |             | ✅          |             | .us-2.platf |
| ## [East (u |             |             | -   34      | ormsh.site` |
| s-2)](#east |             |             | .238.64.193 |             |
| -us-2-us-2) |             |             | -   5       | -   34      |
|             |             |             | 2.4.246.137 | .226.46.235 |
| `us-2       |             |             | -   5       | -   34      |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | 4.157.66.30 | .238.11.122 |
|             |             |             |             | -   54      |
|             |             |             |             | .89.106.200 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | Azure       | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| ##          |             | ✅          |             | .us-3.platf |
| ## [West (u |             |             | -   52      | ormsh.site` |
| s-3)](#west |             |             | .137.90.183 |             |
| -us-3-us-3) |             |             | -   5       | -   52      |
|             |             |             | 2.156.93.30 | .137.90.183 |
| `us-3       |             |             | -   51      | -   5       |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | .143.107.76 | 2.156.93.30 |
|             |             |             |             | -   51      |
|             |             |             |             | .143.107.76 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | Google      | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| ##          | Cloud       | ✅          |             | .us-4.platf |
| ## [East (u | Platform    |             | -   34      | ormsh.site` |
| s-4)](#east |             |             | .73.189.215 |             |
| -us-4-us-4) |             |             | -           | -   34      |
|             |             |             | 34.74.8.155 | .73.189.215 |
| `us-4       |             |             | -   34      | -           |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | .75.104.115 | 34.74.8.155 |
|             |             |             |             | -   34      |
|             |             |             |             | .75.104.115 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

\### Canada

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound IPs |
|             |             | to new orgs | IPs         |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | AWS         | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| #### [      |             | ✅          |             | .ca-1.platf |
| Canada (ca- |             |             | -   35      | ormsh.site` |
| 1)](#canada |             |             | .182.24.224 |             |
| -ca-1-ca-1) |             |             | -   52      | -   35.     |
|             |             |             | .60.213.255 | 182.174.169 |
| `ca-1       |             |             | -   35.     | -   3       |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | 182.220.113 | 5.182.59.77 |
|             |             |             |             | -   5       |
|             |             |             |             | 2.60.219.22 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

\### Australia

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound IPs |
|             |             | to new orgs | IPs         |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | AWS         | to new orgs | ips         | `           |
| #### [      |             | ✅          |             | gw.au.platf |
| Australia ( |             |             | -           | ormsh.site` |
| au)](#austr |             |             | 13.55.135.0 |             |
| alia-au-au) |             |             | -   13      | -   1       |
|             |             |             | .54.121.225 | 3.54.88.239 |
| `au         |             |             | -   13      | -   13      |
| .upsun.com` |             |             | .55.215.151 | .55.140.143 |
|             |             |             |             | -   1       |
|             |             |             |             | 3.54.222.56 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Region      | Provider    | Available   | Outbound    | Inbound ips |
|             | Azure       | to new orgs | ips         | `gw         |
| #           |             | ✅          |             | .au-2.platf |
| ### [Austra |             |             | -   2       | ormsh.site` |
| lia (au-2)] |             |             | 0.92.240.74 |             |
| (#australia |             |             | -   20.     | -   2       |
| -au-2-au-2) |             |             | 191.224.199 | 0.92.240.74 |
|             |             |             | -   20      | -   20.     |
| `au-2       |             |             | .92.240.236 | 191.224.199 |
| .upsun.com` |             |             |             | -   20      |
|             |             |             |             | .92.240.236 |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

\## Upcoming changes \### GCP and Azure regions outbound IPs On the 17th
of March 2025, outbound IPs on \*\*all GCP and Azure regions\*\* will
change. Customer projects that refer to outbound IPs explicitly in their
code and/or configuration must intervene and update to the \*\*New
outbound IPs\*\* as soon as is possible. Before the 17th of March, no
traffic go through the \*\*New outbound IPs\*\*. After the 17th of
March, the \*\*Old outbound IPs\*\* will no longer be available.
Allowing both new and old IP addresses in any configuration during the
transition period is recommended.

+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Region                | Old outbound IPs      | New outbound IPs      |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Region                | Outbound ips          | Outbound ips          |
|                       |                       |                       |
| ####                  | -   35.242.142.110    | -   35.246.36.142     |
| United Kingdom (uk-1) | -   35.189.126.202    | -   34.147.217.161    |
|                       | -   35.242.183.249    | -   34.89.33.176      |
| `uk-1.platform.sh`    |                       |                       |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Region                | Outbound ips          | Outbound ips          |
|                       |                       |                       |
| #### Germany (de-2)   | -   35.246.248.138    | -   34.159.207.210    |
|                       | -   35.246.184.45     | -   34.159.181.149    |
| `de-2.platform.sh`    | -   35.242.229.239    | -   34.107.79.7       |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Region                | Outbound ips          | Outbound ips          |
|                       |                       |                       |
| ##                    | -   34.65.236.213     | -   34.65.197.163     |
| ## Switzerland (ch-1) | -   34.65.152.61      | -   34.65.144.16      |
|                       | -   34.65.244.185     | -   34.65.72.28       |
| `ch-1.platform.sh`    |                       |                       |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Region                | Outbound ips          | Outbound ips          |
|                       |                       |                       |
| #### East (us-4)      | -   34.73.189.215     | -   104.196.203.234   |
|                       | -   34.74.8.155       | -   34.148.171.57     |
| `us-4.platform.sh`    | -   34.75.104.115     | -   35.243.131.172    |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Region                | Outbound ips          | Outbound ips          |
|                       |                       |                       |
| #### France (fr-4)    | -   20.74.41.190      | -   20.188.46.156     |
|                       | -   20.74.41.218      | -   20.188.46.158     |
| `fr-4.platform.sh`    | -   20.74.42.30       | -   20.188.46.165     |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Region                | Outbound ips          | Outbound ips          |
|                       |                       |                       |
| #### West (us-3)      | -   52.137.90.183     | -   52.148.128.255    |
|                       | -   52.156.93.30      | -   52.250.13.106     |
| `us-3.platform.sh`    | -   51.143.107.76     | -   40.91.69.215      |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Region                | Outbound ips          | Outbound ips          |
|                       |                       |                       |
| #### Australia (au-2) | -   20.92.240.74      | -   104.210.116.116   |
|                       | -   20.191.224.199    | -   40.126.245.226    |
| `au-2.platform.sh`    | -   20.92.240.236     | -   104.210.117.92    |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+

\#### How to audit the potential impact on an organization You can
determine which of your project are potentially impacted by this change
via the CLI or the Console.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

For a given organization ORG_NAME, run the following command:

Terminal `upsun project:list -o ORG_NAME --region=REGION`

Where REGION is one of the impacted regions:

-   `ch-1.upsun.com`
-   `uk-1.upsun.com`
-   `de-2.upsun.com`
-   `us-4.upsun.com`
-   `fr-4.upsun.com`
-   `us-3.upsun.com`
-   `au-2.upsun.com`

There is a community-maintained Region auditing snippet you can use for
this case:

`curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/snippets/region-audit/src/region-audit.sh | bash -s -- ORG_NAME ch-1,uk-1,de-2,us-4,fr-4,us-3,au-2 upsun`

1.  Navigate to the organization (ORG_NAME) you'd like to audit at
    `https://console.upsun.com/ORG_NAME`. This view shows all of your
    projects within the organization ORG_NAME (assuming you have at
    least
    [`projects:list`](/administration/users.html#organization-permissions)
    permissions on the organization).
2.  On the left hand side, under the **Filter** heading, expand the
    **Region** option.
3.  Under Region, select the following region filters:
    -   Germany (de-2)
    -   Switzerland (ch-1)
    -   United Kingdom (uk-1)
    -   United States - East (us-4)
    -   France (fr-4)
    -   United States - West (us-3)
    -   Australia - East (au-2)

Not every project listed in this audit will necessarily be impacted by
the change, only those that are explicitly using the outbound IPs in
some way. #PHP When dealing with PHP stacks, the information below may
help customize your configuration. These sections provide PHP-specific
configuration details, but you can also refer to the common Upsun
documentation: - \[Configuring applications\](/create-apps) - \[Setting
up managed services\](/add-services) - \[Handling
requests\](/define-routes) \## Build flavors By default, Upsun makes
assumptions about how you want to build your application. Namely, that
you are managing your dependencies with Composer, and that the very
first thing you\'d like to run is a particular and common production
flavor of \`composer install\`. This is called a build \`flavor\`, but
its assumption may prove inappropriate for your application and cause
your builds to fail. Therefore, you can \[disable this
feature\](/languages/php#dependencies). \## Authenticated Composer
Packagist is the primary Composer repository for public PHP packages.
But you can also have Composer download PHP packages from a private,
third-party Composer repository. To make sure Composer has the necessary
credentials to do so, follow the instructions on the \[Authenticated
Composer documentation\](/languages/php/composer-auth). \## PHP settings
Upsun provides additional configuration possibilities to control: -
\[PHP-FPM runtime
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#runtime) -
\[PHP settings\](/languages/php#php-settings) \## Enabling/disabling
extensions PHP has a number of extensions developed by members of the
community. Some of these extensions need to be enabled, while others are
enabled by default and must be disabled if desirable. See which \[PHP
extensions\](/languages/php/extensions) are available for your version
of PHP. \## Web servers While PHP-FPM is the default behavior, Upsun
provides some support for different web servers by modifying the
\`web.commands.start\` property: - \[Alternate start
commands\](/languages/php#alternate-start-commands) -
\[Swoole\](/languages/php/swoole) \## Frameworks The Upsun documentation
includes a wide array of community resources to help with
framework-specific configuration: -
\[Laravel\](/get-started/stacks/laravel) -
\[Symfony\](/get-started/stacks/symfony) \## Get support While there are
virtually no restrictions to you deploying any kind of application on
Upsun, configuration may still be unclear at this point. Not to worry!
The Upsun community is here to help. Come and say hello, share your
work, ask for help, and peek in on what others are working on. Welcome
to the Upsun community! Join us on Discord Ask a question on the forum

#Troubleshoot development \## Common tasks \### Force a redeploy There
are times where you might want to trigger a redeployment of your
application, such as to add custom TLS certificates. A redeploy reuses
your built app and services. To trigger a redeploy, follow these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

<!-- -->

-   Select the project with the given environment.
-   From the **Environment** menu, select the environment.
-   Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTIgNi41QzEyLjgyODQgNi41IDEzLjUgNS44Mjg0MyAxMy41IDVDMTMuNSA0LjE3MTU3IDEyLjgyODQgMy41IDEyIDMuNUMxMS4xNzE2IDMuNSAxMC41IDQuMTcxNTcgMTAuNSA1QzEwLjUgNS44Mjg0MyAxMS4xNzE2IDYuNSAxMiA2LjVaIiAvPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDEzLjVDMTIuODI4NCAxMy41IDEzLjUgMTIuODI4NCAxMy41IDEyQzEzLjUgMTEuMTcxNiAxMi44Mjg0IDEwLjUgMTIgMTAuNUMxMS4xNzE2IDEwLjUgMTAuNSAxMS4xNzE2IDEwLjUgMTJDMTAuNSAxMi44Mjg0IDExLjE3MTYgMTMuNSAxMiAxMy41WiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    **More**.
-   Click **Redeploy**.

Run the following command:

`upsun redeploy` The redeploy takes place after any scheduled activities
(either \*Running\* or \*Pending\*).

### Note

Despite the name, redeployment doesn't rerun the `deploy` hook, only the
`post_deploy` hook. Both your `build` and `deploy` hooks are tied to
individual commits in code. They're reused until another commit is
pushed to the environment. See more about hooks and their reuse.

To rerun the `build` and `deploy` hooks, [manually trigger a
build](#manually-trigger-builds).

### Is there a way to redeploy the production environment without knowing its name?

It's often desirable that the production environment, like many other
values, is not hardcoded into your external workflows and management
scripts. You can use the CLI, along with the [environment type
distinction](/glossary.html#environment-type) to identify a production
environment (assuming there is only one) and redeploy it in a single
line.

To do so, run the following command:

`upsun redeploy -e $(upsun environment:list --type production --pipe)`

\### Manually trigger builds To increase performance and keep
applications the same across environments, Upsun reuses built
applications if its code and build time configuration (variables and
such) remain the same. There may be times where you want to force your
application to be built again without changing its code, for example to
test an issue in a build hook or when external dependencies change. To
force a rebuild without changing the code, use an \[environment
variable\](./variables/set-variables.md#create-environment-specific-variables).
Assuming you want to do this for your \`main\` environment, first create
a \`REBUILD_DATE\` environment variable: \`\`\`bash upsun
variable:create \--environment main \--level environment \--prefix env
\--name REBUILD_DATE \--value \"\$(date)\" \--visible-build true \`\`\`
This triggers a build right away to propagate the variable. To force a
rebuild at any time, update the variable with a new value: \`\`\`bash
upsun variable:update \--environment main \--value \"\$(date)\"
\"env:REBUILD_DATE\" \`\`\` This forces your application to be built
even if no code has changed. \### Clear the build cache You may find
that you need to clear the build cache, such as when it\'s grown too big
or, in rare circumstances, when it\'s corrupted. It may get corrupted
when code is downloaded from a third-party language service like
Packagist or npm while that service is experiencing issues. To clear the
build cache, run the following command: \`\`\`sh upsun
project:clear-build-cache \`\`\` The next build for each environment is
likely to take longer as the cache rebuilds. \## Access denied or
permission denied In most cases, issues accessing a project are caused
by missing permissions for a given user. For more information see how to
\[manage user permissions\](../administration/users.md). If you are
using the CLI, make sure that \[you are
authenticated\](../administration/cli/\_index.md#2-authenticate). If you
are using SSH, see how to \[troubleshoot SSH
access\](../development/ssh/troubleshoot-ssh.md). \## HTTP responses 502
Bad Gateway or 503 Service Unavailable If you see these errors when
accessing your application, it indicates your application is crashing or
unavailable. Typical causes and potential solutions include: - Your app
is listening at the wrong place. - Check your app\'s \[upstream
properties\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#upstream). -
If your app listening at a port, make sure it\'s using the \[\`PORT\`
environment
variable\](./variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables). - Your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` configuration has an error and a process isn\'t
starting or requests can\'t be forwarded to it correctly. - Check your
\`web.commands.start\` entry or your \`passthru\` configuration. - The
amount of traffic coming to your site exceeds the processing power of
your application. - You may want to \[check if bots are overwhelming
your
site\](https://community.platform.sh/t/diagnosing-and-resolving-issues-with-excessive-bot-access/792). -
Certain code paths in your application are too slow and timing out. -
Check your code is running smoothly. - Consider using the
\[observability
solution\](../increase-observability/application-metrics/\_index.md)
included in your project to get a better view of your application. - A
PHP process is crashing because of a segmentation fault. - See \[how to
deal with crashed
processes\](../languages/php/troubleshoot.md#troubleshoot-a-crashed-php-process). -
A PHP process is killed by the kernel out-of-memory killer. - See \[how
to deal with killed
processes\](../languages/php/troubleshoot.md#troubleshoot-a-killed-php-process).
\## Site outage If you can\'t access some part of your project, whether
it\'s the live site, development environment, or Console, check the
\[Upsun status page\](https://status.platform.sh/). There you can see
planned maintenance and subscribe to updates for any potential outages.
If the status is operational, \[contact
support\](/learn/overview/get-support.md). \## Command not found When
you\'ve added a command line tool (such as
\[Drush\](/glossary.md#drush)), you might encounter an error like the
following: \`\`\`bash -bash: drush: command not found \`\`\` If you see
this, add the command you want to run to your path with a
\[\`.environment\` file
script\](./variables/set-variables.md#set-variables-via-script). As a
Linux or Unix-like operating system user (MacOS included), to be able to
run your scripts directly and quickly get past this error you may need
to run the \`chmod +x YOUR_SCRIPT_FILE_NAME\` command. However,
regardless of which operating system you\'re using, it\'s best if you
\*\*don\'t rely on scripts having execute permissions\*\*. Instead, call
the app/shell/runtime directly passing your script file to that
executable. \## Missing commits If you push code to Upsun without the
full Git history, sometimes commits are missing. This can happen if
you\'re pushing code from an external CI/CD pipeline, such as a GitHub
action. Such pipelines often do only shallow clones by default. In such
cases, your build might fail with an internal error. Or you might see an
error like \`unexpected disconnect while reading sideband packet\`. To
avoid the error, make sure you do a full clone of the repository before
pushing code. For example, for the \[Checkout GitHub
action\](https://github.com/actions/checkout), set \`fetch-depth: 0\` to
clone the full history. For GitLab, set clones to have a limit of \`0\`
either in \[repository
settings\](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/pipelines/settings.html#limit-the-number-of-changes-fetched-during-clone)
or using the \[\`GIT_DEPTH\`
variable\](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/repository/monorepos/index.html#shallow-cloning).
\## Large JSON file upload failing When trying to upload a large JSON
file to your API, you might see a 400 response code (\`Malformed
request\`). Upsun enforces a 10 MB limit on files with the
\`application/json\` \`Content-Type\` header. To send large files, use
the \`multipart/form-data\` header instead: \`\`\`bash curl -XPOST
\'https://example.com/graphql\' \--header \'Content-Type:
multipart/form-data\' \--form file=large_file.json \`\`\` \## Databases
For MySQL specific errors, see how to \[troubleshoot
MySQL\](../add-services/mysql/troubleshoot.md). \### Permission error
creating a database If you try to use a user to create a database, you
get an error saying \`permission denied to create database\`. The
database is created for you and can be found in the
\`\"SERVICE_NAME\"\_\"PATH\"\` \[service environment
variable\](./variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables), or in
the \`path\` key of the \`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` \[environment
variable\](./variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables). \##
Storage If you\'re having trouble with storage, see how to
\[troubleshoot mounts\](../create-apps/troubleshoot-mounts.md) and
\[disks\](../create-apps/troubleshoot-disks.md). \### Can\'t write to
file system If you attempt to write to disk outside a \`build\` hook,
you may encounter a \`read-only file system\` error. Except where you
define it, the file system is all read-only, with code changes necessary
through git. This gives you benefits like repeatable deployments,
consistent backups, and traceability. To generate anything you need
later, \[write to disk during a \`build\`
hook\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#writable-directories-during-build).
Or \[declare
mounts\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts),
which are writable even during and after deploy. They can be used for
your data: file uploads, logs, and temporary files. \### Upsun push
fails due to lack of disk space You might see the following message when
attempting to run \`upsun push\`: \`There isn\'t enough free space to
complete the push\` This usually indicates that large files are present
in the repository (where they shouldn\'t be). Make sure that the paths
for files like media files, dependencies, and databases are set to be
ignored in your \`.gitignore\` file. If large files are already in the
repository, the open-source tool
\[bfg-repo-cleaner\](https://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/) can
help in cleaning up the repository by purging older commits, removing
unnecessary files, and more. If none of these suggestions work, open a
\[support ticket\](/learn/overview/get-support). \## Stuck build or
deployment If you see a build or deployment running longer than
expected, it may be one of the following cases: - The build is blocked
by a process in your \`build\` hook. - The deployment is blocked by a
long-running process in your \`deploy\` hook. - The deployment is
blocked by a long-running cron job in the environment. - The deployment
is blocked by a long-running cron job in the parent environment. To
determine if your environment is being stuck in the build or the
deployment, check your \[activity
log\](../increase-observability/logs/access-logs.md#activity-logs). If
the activity has the result \`success\`, the build has completed
successfully and the system is trying to deploy. If the result is still
\`running\`, the build is stuck. In most regions, stuck builds terminate
after one hour. When a deployment is blocked, you should try the
following: 1. Connect to your environment using
\[SSH\](./ssh/\_index.md). 2. Find any long-running cron jobs or deploy
hooks on the environment by running \`ps afx\`. 3. Kill any long-running
processes with \`kill PID\`. Replace \`PID\` with the process ID shown
by \`ps afx\`. If a \`sync\` of \`activate\` process is stuck, try the
above on the parent environment. Note that, for PHP apps, you can
\[restart processes that get stuck during a build or
deployment\](../languages/php/troubleshoot.md#restart-php-processes-stuck-during-a-build-or-deployment)
from your app container. \## Slow or failing build or deployment Builds
can take long time or fail. Most of the time, it\'s related to an
application issue. Here are a few tips that can help you find the exact
cause. \### Check for errors in the logs Invisible errors during the
build and deploy phase can cause increased wait times, failed builds,
and other problems. Investigate \[each
log\](../increase-observability/logs/access-logs.md#container-logs) and
fix any errors you find. \### Build and deploy hooks \[\`build\` and
\`deploy\` hooks\](../create-apps/hooks/\_index.md) can cause long build
times. If they run into issues, they can cause the build to fail or hang
indefinitely. \`build\` hooks can be tested in your local environment.
\`deploy\` hooks can be tested either locally or by logging into the
application over \[SSH\](./ssh/\_index.md) and running them there. Be
careful not to test the scripts on production environments. You can also
test your hooks with these Linux commands to help debug issues:
\`\`\`text time YOUR_HOOK_COMMAND \# Print execution time strace -T
YOUR_HOOK_COMMAND \# Print a system call report \`\`\` \### Cron jobs
Containers can\'t be shutdown while long-running \[cron jobs and
scheduled
tasks\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#crons) are
active. That means long-running cron jobs block a container from being
shut down to make way for a new deploy. Make sure your custom cron jobs
run quickly and properly. Cron jobs may invoke other services in
unexpected ways, which can increase execution time. \## Cache
configuration A common source of performance issues is a misconfigured
cache. The most common issue isn\'t allowing the right cookies as part
of the router cache. Some cookies, such as session cookies, need to be
allowed. Others, such as marketing and analytics cookies, usually
shouldn\'t be part of the cache key. See more about \[router
cache\](../define-routes/cache.md) and \[cookie
entry\](../define-routes/cache.md#cookies). Because the router cache
follows cache headers from your app, your app needs to send the correct
\`cache-control\` header. For static assets, set cache headers using the
\`expires\` key in your \[app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#locations).
\## Language-specific troubleshooting For language-specific
troubleshooting for your apps: -
\[PHP\](../languages/php/troubleshoot.md) - \[Node
JS\](../languages/nodejs/debug.md) #Comparing Continuous Profiling
Timeframes

**Feature Availability**

By default, Upsun offers 15 minutes of continuous profiling per project
and for free. To get 30 days of continuous profiling per project and for
a fixed fee, [upgrade to the Continuous Profiling
add-on](/administration/billing/add-on-subscription.html#continuous-profiling-add-on).

Upsun Continuous Profiler dashboard allows comparing two timeframes to
better understand application dynamics in various contexts. You could
compare two versions of the application, before and after a deployment,
or rush hours with quiet times for instance. \## Enabling comparison
mode A toggle on the top right corner of the continuous profiling
dashboard enables the comparison mode.
\![Routes\](/images/observability/cont-prof-comparison-console.png
\"0.5\") With comparisons enabled, you can select two timeframes
referred to as \`\`A\`\` and \`\`B\`\`. Those times can overlap. \##
Understanding continuous profiling visual comparison The flamegraph
provides a visual representation of how timeframe \`\`B\`\` compares to
\`\`A\`\` for the selected dimension using shades of colors. The
stronger the color, the higher resource variation.
\![Routes\](/images/observability/cont-prof-comparison-flamegraph.png
\"0.5\") Shades of green indicates timeframe \`\`B\`\` is consuming less
resources than \`\`A\`\` for the selected dimension. Shades of red
indicate the opposite. A scale and contextual information are displayed
when hovering a span. This ensures accessibility for all users and allow
colorblind users to benefit from this feature.
\![Routes\](/images/observability/cont-prof-comparison-scale.png
\"0.5\") #Continuous Profiling dashboard

**Feature Availability**

By default, Upsun offers 15 minutes of continuous profiling per project
and for free. To get 30 days of continuous profiling per project and for
a fixed fee, [upgrade to the Continuous Profiling
add-on](/administration/billing/add-on-subscription.html#continuous-profiling-add-on).

Continuous profiling is a multi-dimensional performance optimization
technique where web applications are monitored and profiled in
real-time. Lightweight and scalable, it\'s tailored for holistic
application oversight. Continuous profiling collects performance data
continuously, enabling developers to gain deep insights into their
application\'s behavior, identify bottlenecks, and optimize code for
better performance and resource utilization. This proactive approach
allows for quicker identification and resolution of performance issues,
ensuring the smooth running of software in live environments. \##
Continuous profiling on Upsun Upsun Continuous Profiling is powered by
\[Blackfire\](../../../increase-observability/application-metrics/blackfire.md).
It is available directly from the Console under the \`Profiling\` tab of
your environments. The Continuous Profiling dashboard lets you visualize
the profiling data of a specific application. It is composed of several
views: flame graph, table view, and a split view combining the flame
graph and table views. Each view helps make sense of the profiling data
for the selected dimension and time frame. The available dimensions vary
with the runtime profiled. \## Color-coded node dimensions Upsun
continuous profiling dashboard employs a color-coded system to represent
each dimension, ensuring consistency across different runtimes. The
intensity of a node\'s background color is directly proportional to the
resources it consumes. As resource consumption increases, so does the
vibrancy of the background color. This visual representation pinpoints
application areas that may require optimization.
\![Routes\](/images/observability/cont-prof-color-code.png \"0.5\") The
contrast between the dimension color and the grayscale of regular nodes
has been designed to ensure accessibility for all users and allow
colorblind users to benefit from this feature. \## Flame graph The flame
graph is a hierarchical visualization of the contribution of the
different function calls to the selected dimensions. Flame graphs are
effective in identifying performance issues and understanding the
behavior of software during execution.
\![Routes\](/images/observability/flame-graph.png \"0.5\") Rectangles in
a flame graph are called frames. Each frame represents a function,
arranged vertically (y-axis) to show the sequence of method calls. The
width of a frame relates to its resource usage. It helps pinpoint the
most resource-intensive function calls. Their colors are not
performance-related. They are meant to differentiate between functions.
Horizontally (x-axis), methods are sorted by name, not the order in
which they run. Hovering a frame displays in-depth information on it.
\![Routes\](/images/observability/flame-graph-hover.png \"0.3\")
Clicking on a frame narrows down the flame graph to the callers and
callee nodes of that frame.
\![Routes\](/images/observability/flame-graph-clicked.png \"0.5\") \##
Table view The table view displays a list of all the frames sorted by
their resource consumption, for the selected dimension and time frame.
By default, the table is sorted by \`exclusive\` resource consumption,
which is the total value of the frame, minus the combined total values
of its direct children. \![Routes\](/images/observability/table-view.png
\"0.5\") #Define routes for your multiple apps When you set up a project
containing multiple applications, all of your apps are served by a
single \[router for the project\](/define-routes/\_index.md). Each of
your apps must have a \`name\` that\'s unique within the project. To
define specific routes for one of your apps, use this \`name\`. There
are various ways you can define routes for multiple app projects. In
this project, you have a CMS app, two frontend apps (one using Symfony
and another using Gatsby), and a Mercure Rocks server app, defined as
follows: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: admin: source: root: admin type:
nodejs:22 api: source: root: api type: php:8.4 gatsby: source: root:
gatsby type: nodejs:22 mercure: source: root: mercure/.config type:
golang:1.23 \`\`\`

### Note

You don't need to define a route for each app in the repository. If an
app isn't specified, then it isn't accessible to the web. One good
example of defining an app with no route is when you [use Git
submodules](/create-apps/multi-app/project-structure.html#split-your-code-source-into-multiple-git-submodule-repositories)
and want to [use a source operation to update your
submodules](/development/submodules.html#update-submodules).

You can also achieve the same thing by defining the app as a
[`worker`](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#workers).

Depending on your needs, you could configure the router container
\[using subdomains\](#define-routes-using-subdomains) or using
\[subdirectories\](#define-routes-using-subdirectories). \### Define
routes using subdomains You could define routes for your apps as
follows: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://mercure.{default}/\": type:
upstream upstream: \"mercure:http\" \"https://{default}/\": type:
upstream upstream: \"api:http\" \`\`\` So if your default domain is
\`example.com\`, that means: - \`https://mercure.example.com/\` is
served by your Mercure Rocks app (\`mercure\`). -
\`https://example.com/\` is served by your Symfony frontend app
(\`api\`).

### Note

Using a subdomain might double your network traffic, so consider using a
path like `https://{default}/api` instead.

\### Define routes using subdirectories Alternatively, you could define
your routes as follows: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: \"https://{default}/\":
type: upstream upstream: \"api:http\" \"https://{default}/admin\": type:
upstream upstream: \"admin:http\" \`\`\` Then you would need to
configure each app\'s \`web.locations\` property to match these paths:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: admin: source: root: admin type: nodejs:22
\... web: locations: \'/admin\': passthru: \'/admin/index.html\' root:
\'build\' index: - \'index.html\' api: source: root: api type: php:8.4
\... web: locations: \"/\": passthru: \"/index.php\" root: \"public\"
index: - index.php routes: \"https://{default}/\": type: upstream
upstream: \"api:http\" \"https://{default}/admin\": type: upstream
upstream: \"admin:http\" \`\`\` So if your default domain is
\`example.com\`, that means: - \`https://example.com/\` is served by
your Symfony frontend app (\`api\`). - \`https://example.com/admin\` is
served by your Admin app (\`admin\`). Note that in this example, for the
configuration of your \`admin\` app, you need to add the URL suffix
\`/admin\` as both an index in the \`web.locations\` and a value for the
\`passhtru\` setting. For a complete example, \[go to this project on
GitHub\](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/bigfoot-multiapp/tree/submodules-root-subfolders-applications).
#Python When dealing with Python stacks, the information below may help
customize your configuration. These sections provide Python-specific
configuration details, but you can also refer to the common Upsun
documentation: - \[Configuring applications\](/create-apps) - \[Setting
up managed services\](/add-services) - \[Handling
requests\](/define-routes) \## Managing dependencies Pip comes
pre-installed in all \`python\` runtime containers. With it, you can add
\`pip install\` to your build hook and be well on your way to building
your apps. Alternatively, you can \[use a different package
manager\](/languages/python/dependencies), such as Poetry or Pipvenv.
\## Configuring web servers Upsun doesn\'t enforce an assumption of what
Python web server package you are using to serve your applications. You
can use any server on Upsun by modifying the \`web.commands.start\`
property of your application configuration. For more information, see
how to \[configure web servers\](/languages/python/server). \##
Frameworks The Upsun documentation includes a wide array of community
resources to help with framework-specific configuration: -
\[Django\](/get-started/stacks/django) -
\[Flask\](/get-started/stacks/flask) \## Get support While there are
virtually no restrictions to you deploying any kind of application on
Upsun, configuration may still be unclear at this point. Not to worry!
The Upsun community is here to help. Come and say hello, share your
work, ask for help, and peek in on what others are working on. Welcome
to the Upsun community! Join us on Discord Ask a question on the forum

#Redis (Object cache) \[Redis\](https://redis.io/documentation) is a
multi-model database that allows you to store data in memory for
high-performance data retrieval and key-value storage. Upsun supports
two different Redis configurations: - \[Persistent\](#persistent-redis):
to set up fast persistent storage for your application -
\[Ephemeral\](#ephemeral-redis): to set up a non-persistent cache for
your application \## Supported versions You can select the major and
minor version. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and
the like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest available
patches.

-   7.2
-   7.0
-   6.2

\### Deprecated versions The following versions are
\[deprecated\](/glossary.html#deprecated-versions). They\'re available,
but they aren\'t receiving security updates from upstream and aren\'t
guaranteed to work. They\'ll be removed in the future, so migrate to one
of the \[supported versions\](#supported-versions).

-   6.0
-   5.0
-   4.0
-   3.2
-   3.0
-   2.8

Note that versions 3.0 and higher support up to 64 different databases
per instance of the service, while Redis 2.8 only supports a single
database. \## Service types Depending on your needs, you can set up
Redis as \[persistent\](#persistent-redis) or
\[ephemeral\](#ephemeral-redis). \## Relationship reference For each
service \[defined via a relationship\](#usage-example) to your
application, Upsun automatically generates corresponding environment
variables within your application container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format.
Here is example information available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`REDIS_USERNAME= REDIS_SCHEME=redis REDIS_SERVICE=redis REDIS_FRAGMENT= REDIS_IP=123.456.78.90 REDIS_EPOCH=0 REDIS_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.redis.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site REDIS_PORT=6379 REDIS_CLUSTER=azertyuiopqsdf-main-afdwftq REDIS_HOST=rediscache.internal REDIS_REL=redis REDIS_PATH= REDIS_QUERY={} REDIS_PASSWORD= REDIS_TYPE=redis:7.2 REDIS_PUBLIC=false REDIS_HOST_MAPPED=false`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "username": null, "scheme": "redis", "service": "redis", "fragment": null, "ip": "123.456.78.90", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.redis.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "port": 6379, "cluster": "azertyuiopqsdf-main-7rqtwti", "host": "redis.internal", "rel": "redis", "path": null, "query": [], "password": null, "type": "redis:7.2", "public": false, "host_mapped": false }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_REDIS_HOST="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.redis[0].host')"`
The format of the relationship is identical whether your Redis service
is \[ephemeral\](#ephemeral-redis) or \[persistent\](#persistent-redis).
\## Persistent Redis By default, Redis is an ephemeral service that
stores data in memory. This allows for fast data retrieval, but also
means data can be lost when a container is moved or shut down. To solve
this issue, configure your Redis service as persistent. Persistent Redis
stores data on a disk, restoring it if the container restarts. To switch
from persistent to ephemeral Redis, set up a new service with a
different name.

### Warning

Upsun sets the maximum amount of memory (`maxmemory`) Redis can use for
the data set, and it cannot be amended. It is defined by comparing the
following values and keeping the lower of the two:

-   Disk size/6 (based on a [recommendation from
    Redis](https://docs.redis.com/latest/rs/installing-upgrading/install/plan-deployment/hardware-requirements/#productionenvironment))
-   The amount of memory allocated to the service container

For instance, if your Redis container has 3072 MB of disk space and 1024
MB of memory, only 512 MB of RAM are actually available to the service
(3072/6 = 512).

But if your Redis container has 3072 MB of disk space and 256 MB of
memory, only 256 MB of RAM are actually available to the service (as per
the container limit).

\### Usage example \#### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`redis-persistent\` endpoint: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The
name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. : type:
redis-persistent: \`\`\` Note that changing the name of the service
replaces it with a brand new service and all existing data is lost. Back
up your data before changing the service. \#### 2. Define the
relationship To define the relationship, use the \`redis\` endpoint :

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the name of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<SERVICE_NAME>` and its
corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: redis`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

For PHP, enable the \[extension\](/languages/php/extensions) for the
service:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: redis`
\### Configuration example

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: source: root: "myapp" [...] # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: redis: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. redis: type: redis-persistent:7.2`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: source: root: "myapp" [...] # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: redis: service: redis endpoint: redis services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. redis: type: redis-persistent:7.2`
\### Use in app To use the configured service in your app, add a
configuration file similar to the following to your project.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: source: root: "myapp" # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: redis: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. redis: type: redis-persistent:7.2`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: source: root: "myapp" # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: redis: service: redis endpoint: redis services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. redis: type: redis-persistent:7.2`
This configuration defines a single application (\`myapp\`), whose
source code exists in the \`/myapp\` directory. \`myapp\` has access to
the \`redis\` service, via a relationship whose name is \[identical to
the service name\](#2-define-the-relationship) (as per \[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships). From this, \`\`myapp\`\` can retrieve
access credentials to the service through the \[relationship environment
variables\](#relationship-reference). \`\`\`bash {} \# Set environment
variables for individual credentials. \# For more information, please
visit
https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables.
export CACHE_HOST=\"\${REDIS_HOST}\" export
CACHE_PORT=\"\${REDIS_PORT}\" export
CACHE_PASSWORD=\"\${REDIS_PASSWORD}\" export
CACHE_SCHEME=\"\${REDIS_SCHEME}\" \# Surface a Redis connection string
for use in app. export
CACHE_URL=\"\${CACHE_SCHEME}://\${CACHE_PASSWORD}@\${CACHE_HOST}:\${CACHE_PORT}\"
\`\`\` The above file --- \`\`.environment\`\` in the \`\`myapp\`\`
directory --- is automatically sourced by Upsun into the runtime
environment, so that the variable \`\`CACHE_URL\`\` can be used within
the application to connect to the service. Note that \`\`CACHE_URL\`\`,
and all Upsun \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
like \`\`REDIS_HOST\`\`, are environment-dependent. Unlike the build
produced for a given commit, they can't be reused across environments
and only allow your app to connect to a single service instance on a
single environment. A file very similar to this is generated
automatically for your when using the \`\`upsun ify\`\` command to
\[migrate a codebase to Upsun\](/get-started/\_index.md). \## Ephemeral
Redis By default, Redis is an ephemeral service that serves as a
non-persistent cache. Ephemeral Redis stores data only in memory and
requires no disk space. When the service reaches its memory limit, it
triggers a cache cleanup. To customize those cache cleanups, set up an
\[eviction policy\](#eviction-policy). Make sure your app doesn\'t rely
on ephemeral Redis for persistent storage as it can cause issues. For
example, if a container is moved during region maintenance, the
\`deploy\` and \`post_deploy\` hooks don\'t run and an app that treats
the cache as permanent shows errors. To prevent data from getting lost
when a container is moved or shut down, you can use the \[persistent
Redis\](#persistent-redis) configuration. Persistent Redis provides a
cache with persistent storage. \### Usage example \#### 1. Configure the
service To define the service, use the \`redis\` endpoint: \`\`\`yaml {}
services: \# The name of the service container. Must be unique within a
project. : type: redis: \`\`\` Note that changing the name of the
service replaces it with a brand new service and all existing data is
lost. Back up your data before changing the service. \#### 2. Define the
relationship To define the relationship, use the \`redis\` endpoint :

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the name of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<SERVICE_NAME>` and its
corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: redis`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

For PHP, enable the \[extension\](/languages/php/extensions) for the
service:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: source: root: "myapp" [...] # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. <SERVICE_NAME>: type: redis:<VERSION>`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: source: root: "myapp" [...] # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: redis services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. <SERVICE_NAME>: type: redis:<VERSION>`
\### Configuration example

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: source: root: "myapp" [...] # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: redis: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. redis: type: redis:7.2`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: source: root: "myapp" [...] # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: redis: service: redis endpoint: redis services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. redis: type: redis:7.2`
\### Use in app To use the configured service in your app, add a
configuration file similar to the following to your project.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: source: root: "myapp" [...] # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: redis: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. redis: type: redis:7.2`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: source: root: "myapp" [...] # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: redis: service: redis endpoint: redis services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. redis: type: redis:7.2`
This configuration defines a single application (\`myapp\`), whose
source code exists in the \`/myapp\` directory. \`myapp\` has access to
the \`redis\` service, via a relationship whose name is \[identical to
the service name\](#2-define-the-relationship) (as per \[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships). From this, \`\`myapp\`\` can retrieve
access credentials to the service through the \[relationship environment
variables\](#relationship-reference). \`\`\`bash {} \# Set environment
variables for individual credentials. \# For more information, please
visit
https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables.
export CACHE_HOST=\"\${REDIS_HOST}\" export
CACHE_PORT=\"\${REDIS_PORT}\" export
CACHE_PASSWORD=\"\${REDIS_PASSWORD}\" export
CACHE_SCHEME=\"\${REDIS_SCHEME}\" \# Surface a Redis connection string
for use in app. export
CACHE_URL=\"\${CACHE_SCHEME}://\${CACHE_PASSWORD}@\${CACHE_HOST}:\${CACHE_PORT}\"
\`\`\` The above file --- \`\`.environment\`\` in the \`\`myapp\`\`
directory --- is automatically sourced by Upsun into the runtime
environment, so that the variable \`\`CACHE_URL\`\` can be used within
the application to connect to the service. Note that \`\`CACHE_URL\`\`,
and all Upsun \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
like \`\`REDIS_HOST\`\`, are environment-dependent. Unlike the build
produced for a given commit, they can't be reused across environments
and only allow your app to connect to a single service instance on a
single environment. A file very similar to this is generated
automatically for your when using the \`\`upsun ify\`\` command to
\[migrate a codebase to Upsun\](/get-started/\_index.md). \## Multiple
databases Redis 3.0 and above support up to 64 databases. But you can\'t
set up different access rights to each database. When you set up a
relationship connection, access to all of the databases is automatically
granted. The way to access a particular database depends on the \[client
library\](https://redis.io/clients) you\'re using:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   PHP
-   Python
-   Node.js

Use the Redis `select` command:

`<?php $redis = new Redis(); $redis->connect(getenv('REDIS_HOST'), getenv('REDIS_PORT')); $redis->select(0); // switch to DB 0 $redis->set('x', '42'); // write 42 to x $redis->move('x', 1); // move to DB 1 $redis->select(1); // switch to DB 1 $redis->get('x'); // returns 42 `

To manage [thread
safety](https://github.com/redis/redis-py/blob/master/docs/advanced_features.rst#user-content-a-note-about-threading),
the Python library suggests using separate client instances for each
database:

`import os from redis import Redis database0 = Redis(host=os.getenv('REDIS_HOST'), port=os.getenv('REDIS_PORT'), db=0) database1 = Redis(host=os.getenv('REDIS_HOST'), port=os.getenv('REDIS_PORT'), db=1)`

Use the Redis `select` command:

`const redis = require('redis'); const client = redis.createClient(process.env.REDIS_PORT, process.env.REDIS_HOST); await client.SELECT(0); // switch to DB 0 await client.set('x', '42'); // write 42 to x await client.MOVE('x', 1); // move to DB 1 await client.SELECT(1); // switch to DB 1 const value = await client.get('x'); // returns 42 `
\## Eviction policy When Redis reaches its memory limit, it triggers a
cache cleanup. To customize those cache cleanups, set up an eviction
policy such as the following: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the
service container. Must be unique within a project. redis: type:
\"redis:7.2\" configuration: maxmemory_policy: allkeys-lfu \`\`\` The
following table presents the possible values: \| Value \| Policy
description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`allkeys-lru\` \| Removes the oldest cache items first. This is the
default policy when \`maxmemory_policy\` isn\'t set. \| \|
\`noeviction\` \| New items aren't saved when the memory limit is
reached. \| \| \`allkeys-lfu\` \| Removes least frequently used cache
items first. \| \| \`volatile-lru\` \| Removes least recently used cache
items with the \`expire\` field set to \`true\`. \| \| \`volatile-lfu\`
\| Removes least frequently used cache items with the \`expire\` field
set to \`true\`. \| \| \`allkeys-random\` \| Randomly removes cache
items to make room for new data. \| \| \`volatile-random\` \| Randomly
removes cache items with the \`expire\` field set to \`true\`. \| \|
\`volatile-ttl\` \| Removes cache items with the \`expire\` field set to
\`true\` and the shortest remaining \`time-to -live\` value. \| For more
information on the different policies, see the official \[Redis
documentation\](https://redis.io/docs/reference/eviction/). \## Access
your Redis service After you\'ve \[configured your Redis
service\](#usage-example), you can access it using either the Upsun CLI
or through the \[Redis CLI\](https://redis.io/docs/ui/cli/). \### Upsun
CLI Unlike the Redis CLI, connecting via the Upsun CLI does not require
additional authentication steps if you are already authenticated in your
terminal. Access your Redis service by running the command: \`\`\`bash
upsun redis \`\`\` \### Redis CLI Retrieve the hostname and port you can
connect to through the \`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` \[environment
variable\](../../development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
To do so, run the \`upsun relationships\` command. After you\'ve
retrieved the hostname and port, \[open an SSH
session\](../development/ssh/\_index.md). To access your Redis service,
run the following command: \`\`\`bash redis-cli -h HOSTNAME -p PORT
\`\`\` If you have a Grid project, note that the \`CONFIG GET\` and
\`CONFIG SET\` admin commands are restricted. To get the current
configuration, run the following command: \`\`\`bash redis-cli -h
HOSTNAME -p PORT info \`\`\` \## Use Redis as a handler for PHP sessions
A PHP session allows you to store different data for each user through a
unique session ID. By default, PHP handles sessions using files. But you
can use Redis as a session handler, which means Redis stores and
retrieves the data saved into sessions. To set up Redis as your session
handler, add a configuration similar to the following:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: source: root: "myapp" type: "php:8.4" # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis relationships: redissession: variables: php: session.save_handler: redis session.save_path: "tcp://``$SESSIONSTORAGE_HOSTNAME:`{.variable
title="Replace '$SESSIONSTORAGE_HOSTNAME' with your own data"}`$SESSIONSTORAGE_PORT" web: locations: '/': root: 'web' passthru: '/index.php' services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. redissession: type: "redis-persistent:7.2" .upsun/config.yaml `{.variable
title="Replace '$SESSIONSTORAGE_PORT' with your own data"}`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: source: root: "myapp" type: "php:8.4" # PHP extensions. runtime: extensions: - redis # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: redissession: service: redissession endpoint: redis variables: php: session.save_handler: redis session.save_path: "tcp://``$SESSIONSTORAGE_HOSTNAME:`{.variable
title="Replace '$SESSIONSTORAGE_HOSTNAME' with your own data"}`$SESSIONSTORAGE_PORT" web: locations: '/': root: 'web' passthru: '/index.php' services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. redissession: type: "redis-persistent:7.2" #Continuous profiling for Go `{.variable
title="Replace '$SESSIONSTORAGE_PORT' with your own data"}

**Feature Availability**

By default, Upsun offers 15 minutes of continuous profiling per project
and for free. To get 30 days of continuous profiling per project and for
a fixed fee, [upgrade to the Continuous Profiling
add-on](/administration/billing/add-on-subscription.html#continuous-profiling-add-on).

\## Continuous profiling on Upsun Upsun \[Continuous
Profiler\](./cont-prof.md) is powered by
\[Blackfire\](../../../increase-observability/application-metrics/blackfire.md).
It is available directly from the Console under the \`Profiling\` tab of
your environments. The GO continuous profiling is currently made across
6 dimensions: - \*\*Allocations\*\*: Number of objects allocated -
\*\*Allocated Memory\*\*: Number of bytes allocated - \*\*CPU\*\*: Time
spent running on the CPU - \*\*Goroutines\*\*: Number of goroutines
(both on-CPU and off-CPU) - \*\*Heap Live Objects\*\*: Number of objects
allocated that are not yet garbage collected - \*\*Heap Live Size\*\*:
Number of bytes allocated that are not yet garbage collected The default
sampling frequency is 100 Hz. This means the Go continuous profiler is
collecting information 100 times per second. \## Prerequisites Upsun
Continuous Profiler requires \[\`Go \>=1.18\`\](/languages/go.md). \##
Installation Get the \[Blackfire Continuous Profiler Go
library\](https://github.com/blackfireio/go-continuous-profiling):
\`\`\`bash go get github.com/blackfireio/go-continuous-profiling \`\`\`
\## Go continuous profiler API The Go continuous profiler API has two
functions: \`\`\`go func Start(opts \...Option) error {} func Stop() {}
\`\`\` \### \`func Start(opts \...Option) error\` \`Start\` starts the
continuous profiler probe. It collects profiling information and uploads
it to the Blackfire Agent periodically. \`\`\`go profiler.Start(
profiler.WithCPUDuration(3 \* time.Second),
profiler.WithCPUProfileRate(1000),
profiler.WithProfileTypes(profiler.CPUProfile, profiler.HeapProfile,
profiler.GoroutineProfile), profiler.WithLabels({ \"key1\": \"value1\",
\"key2\": \"value2\", }), profiler.WithUploadTimeout(5 \* time.Second),
) defer profiler.Stop() \`\`\` The \`Start\` function accepts the
following options: - \`WithCPUDuration\`: specifies the length at which
to collect CPU profiles. The default is 45 seconds. Can also be set via
the environment variable \`BLACKFIRE_CONPROF_CPU_DURATION\`. -
\`WithCPUProfileRate\`: sets the CPU profiling rate in Hz (number of
samples per second). The default is defined by the Go runtime as 100 Hz.
Can also be set via the environment variable
\`BLACKFIRE_CONPROF_CPU_PROFILERATE\`. - \`WithProfileTypes\`: sets the
profiler types. Multiple profile types can be set
(\`profiler.CPUProfile\`, \`profiler.HeapProfile\`,
\`profiler.GoroutineProfile\`). The default is
\`Profiler.CPUProfile\`. - \`WithLabels\`: sets custom labels specific
to the profile payload that is sent. - \`WithUploadTimeout\`: sets the
upload timeout of the message that is sent to the Blackfire Agent. The
default is 10 seconds. Can also be set via the environment variable
\`BLACKFIRE_CONPROF_UPLOAD_TIMEOUT\`.

### Note:

If the same parameter is set by both an environment variable and a
`Start` call, the explicit parameter in the `Start` call takes
precedence.

There is also some additional configuration that can be done using
environment variables: - \`BLACKFIRE_LOG_FILE\`: Sets the log file. The
default is logging to \`stderr\`. - \`BLACKFIRE_LOG_LEVEL\`: Sets the
log level. The default is logging only errors. \### \`func Stop()\`
Stops the continuous profiling probe. \## An example application 1. Get
the Blackfire Continuous Profiler Go library \`\`\`bash go get
github.com/blackfireio/go-continuous-profiling \`\`\` 2. Save the
following code as \`main.go\` and run as follows: \`\`\`bash go run
main.go \`\`\` \`\`\`go package main import ( \"crypto/md5\"
\"encoding/hex\" \"io\" \"time\" profiler
\"github.com/blackfireio/go-continuous-profiling\" ) func
doSomethingCpuIntensive() { md5Hash := func(s string) string { h :=
md5.New() io.WriteString(h, s) return hex.EncodeToString(h.Sum(nil)) }
for i := 0; i \< 1_000_000; i++ { md5Hash(\"UpsunIsCoolAndSoAreYou\") }
} func main() { err := profiler.Start( profiler.WithAppName(\"my-app\"),
) if err != nil { panic(\"Error while starting Profiler\") } defer
profiler.Stop() for i := 0; i \< 15; i++ { doSomethingCpuIntensive()
time.Sleep(1 \* time.Second) } } \`\`\` #Continuous profiling for
Node.js

**Feature Availability**

By default, Upsun offers 15 minutes of continuous profiling per project
and for free. To get 30 days of continuous profiling per project and for
a fixed fee, [upgrade to the Continuous Profiling
add-on](/administration/billing/add-on-subscription.html#continuous-profiling-add-on).

\## Continuous profiling on Upsun Upsun Continuous Profiling is powered
by
\[Blackfire\](../../../increase-observability/application-metrics/blackfire.md).
It is available directly from the Console under the \`Profiling\` tab of
your environments. The Node.js continuous profiling is currently made
across 3 dimensions: - \*\*CPU Time\*\*: Time spent running on the CPU -
\*\*Wall-time\*\*: Elapsed time per function call - \*\*Heap\*\*: Memory
allocation and reserved space over time The default sampling frequency
is 100 Hz. This means the Node.js continuous profiler is collecting
information 100 times per second. \## Prerequisites Upsun Continuous
Profiler requires \[\`Node.js \>=
16.0.0\`\](/languages/nodejs/\_index.md). \## Installation Get the
\[Blackfire Continuous Profiler NodeJS
library\](https://github.com/blackfireio/node-continuous-profiling/):
\`\`\`shell npm install \@blackfireio/node-tracing \`\`\` \`\`\`js const
Blackfire = require(\'@blackfireio/node-tracing\'); \`\`\` \## NodeJS
continuous profiler API The NodeJS continuous profiler API has two
functions: \`\`\`js function start(config) {} function stop() {} \`\`\`
\### \`function start(config) {}\` The \`start\` function starts the
continuous profiler probe. It collects profiling information in the
background and periodically uploads it to the Blackfire Agent until the
\`stop\` function is called. \`\`\`js const Blackfire =
require(\'@blackfireio/node-tracing\'); Blackfire.start({ appName:
\'my-app\' }); // your application\... // If needed, you can stop
profiling before cpuDuration // Blackfire.stop(); \`\`\` The \`start\`
function accepts an object as a parameter with the following keys: -
\`appName\`: name of the application - \`durationMillis\`: time in
milliseconds for which to collect profile (default: 45_000) -
\`cpuProfileRate\`: average sampling frequency in Hz. (default: 100) -
\`labels\`: Labels to add to the profile. (default: {}) -
\`uploadTimeoutMillis\`: Timeout in milliseconds for the upload request
(default: 10000) \### \`function stop() {}\` Stops the continuous
profiling probe. \## An example application 1. Get the Continuous
Profiler NodeJS library \`\`\`shell npm install express
\@blackfireio/node-tracing \`\`\` 2. Create \`index.js\` with the
following code \`\`\`js const Blackfire =
require(\'@blackfireio/node-tracing\'); const express =
require(\'express\') const crypto = require(\"crypto\"); const app =
express() const port = 3000 app.get(\'/\', (req, res) =\> { const salt =
crypto.randomBytes(128).toString(\"base64\"); const hash =
crypto.pbkdf2Sync(\"this is my password\", salt, 10000, 512,
\"sha512\"); res.send(\'Hello World!\'); }) app.listen(port, () =\> {
console.log(\`Example app listening on port \${port}\`)
Blackfire.start({appName: \'blackfire-example\'}); }) \`\`\` 3. Run the
Node.js server \`\`\`bash node index.js #Continuous profiling for PHP

**Feature Availability**

By default, Upsun offers 15 minutes of continuous profiling per project
and for free. To get 30 days of continuous profiling per project and for
a fixed fee, [upgrade to the Continuous Profiling
add-on](/administration/billing/add-on-subscription.html#continuous-profiling-add-on).

Upsun \[Continuous Profiler\](./cont-prof.md) is powered by
\[Blackfire\](../../../increase-observability/application-metrics/blackfire.md).
It is available directly the
\[Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md), under the \*\*Profiling\*\*
tab of your environments. The PHP continuous profiling is currently made
across 4 dimensions: - \*\*CPU Time\*\*: Time spent running on the CPU -
\*\*Wall-time\*\*: Elapsed time per function call - \*\*Allocated
Memory\*\*: Number of bytes allocated in memory - \*\*Allocations\*\*:
Time spent running on the CPU The default sampling frequency is 100 Hz.
This means the PHP continuous profiler is collecting information 100
times per second. \## Prerequisites Upsun Continuous Profiler requires
\[\`PHP \>=8.2\`\](/languages/php/\_index.md). \## Installation The
Blackfire Continuous Profiler PHP library is included by default in all
PHP images matching its requirements. There is no installation required.
\## Configuration The PHP continuous profiler is enabled by default
without configuration. Optionally, you can override the following
environment variables: - \`DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=true\`: forces the PHP
continuous profiler activation/deactivation -
\`DD_PROFILING_LOG_LEVEL=off\`: controls the PHP continuous profiler log
level #Continuous profiling for Python

**Feature Availability**

By default, Upsun offers 15 minutes of continuous profiling per project
and for free. To get 30 days of continuous profiling per project and for
a fixed fee, [upgrade to the Continuous Profiling
add-on](/administration/billing/add-on-subscription.html#continuous-profiling-add-on).

Upsun \[Continuous Profiler\](./cont-prof.md) is powered by
\[Blackfire\](../../../increase-observability/application-metrics/blackfire.md).
It is available directly from the
\[Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md), under the \*\*Profiling\*\*
tab of your environments. The PHP continuous profiling is currently made
across 4 dimensions: - \*\*CPU Time\*\*: Time spent running on the CPU -
\*\*Wall-time\*\*: Elapsed time per function call - \*\*Heap Live
Size\*\*: Number of bytes allocated that are not yet garbage collected -
\*\*Allocated Memory\*\*: Number of bytes allocated in memory -
\*\*Allocations\*\*: Time spent running on the CPU The default sampling
frequency is 100 Hz. This means the Python continuous profiler is
collecting information 100 times per second. \## Prerequisites Upsun
Continuous Profiler requires \[\`Python
\>=3.7.0\`\](/languages/python/\_index.md). \## Installation The
\[Blackfire Continuous Profiler Python
library\](https://github.com/blackfireio/python-continuous-profiling) is
included by default in all Python images matching its requirements.
There is no installation required. \## Python continuous profiler API
The Python profiler API (\`profiler\`) can be initiated with the
following options: - \`application_name\`: the application name. -
\`period\`: specifies the length at which to collect CPU profiles. The
default is 45 seconds. - \`upload_timeout\`: observability data upload
timeout. The default is 10 seconds. - \`labels\`: a dict containing the
custom labels specific to the profile payload that is sent. The Python
continuous profiler API has two functions: \`\`\` python def start():
def stop(): \`\`\` \| Function \| Description \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\| \`def start():\` \| The \`start\` function starts the continuous
profiler probe. It collects profiling information in the background and
periodically uploads it to the Blackfire Agent until the \`\`stop\`\`
function is called. \| \| \`def stop():\` \|Stops the continuous
profiling probe. \| \## Example Here is an example of how you can
initiate the Python \`profiler\` on a basic app: 1. Create
\`example.py\` with the following code: \`\`\` python def foo(): import
time time.sleep(1.0) profiler = Profiler(application\_,
labels={\'my-extra-label\': \'data\'}) profiler.start() foo()
profiler.stop() \`\`\` 2. Run the app: \`\`\` bash python example.py
\`\`\` #Continuous profiling for Ruby Upsun \[Continuous
Profiler\](./cont-prof.md) is powered by
\[Blackfire\](../../../increase-observability/application-metrics/blackfire.md).
It is available directly the
\[Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md), under the \*\*Profiling\*\*
tab of your environments. The Ruby continuous profiling is currently
made across 3 dimensions: - \*\*CPU Time\*\*: Time spent running on the
CPU - \*\*Wall-time\*\*: elapsed time per function call -
\*\*Allocations\*\*: Time spent running on the CPU The default sampling
frequency is 100 Hz. This means the Ruby continuous profiler is
collecting information 100 times per second. \## Prerequisites Upsun
Continuous Profiler requires \[\`Ruby \>= 2.5\`\](/languages/ruby.md).
\## Installation 1. Add the \`datadog\` gem to your \`Gemfile\` or
\`gems.rb\` file: \`\`\` bash gem \'datadog\', \'\~\> 2.0\' \`\`\` 2.
Install the gems running the \`bundle install\` command. 3. Add the
\`\`ddprofrb exec\`\` command to your Ruby application start command:
\`\`\` bash bundle exec ddprofrb exec ruby myrubyapp.rb \`\`\` Rails
example: \`\`\` bash bundle exec ddprofrb exec bin/rails s \`\`\`
Alternatively, start the profiler by adding the following code in your
application\'s entry point if you can\'t start it using \`ddprofrb
exec\`: \`\`\` bash require \'datadog/profiling/preload\' \`\`\`
#Continuous profiling for Rust Upsun \[Continuous
Profiler\](./cont-prof.md) is powered by
\[Blackfire\](../../../increase-observability/application-metrics/blackfire.md).
It is available directly the
\[Console\](/administration/web/\_index.md), under the \*\*Profiling\*\*
tab of your environments. The Rust continuous profiling is currently
made across 3 dimensions: - \*\*CPU Time\*\*: Time spent running on the
CPU - \*\*Allocated Memory\*\*: Number of bytes allocated in memory -
\*\*Allocations\*\*: Time spent running on the CPU The default sampling
frequency is 100 Hz. This means the Rust continuous profiler is
collecting information 100 times per second. The allocated memory
sampling frequency is 524288 Hz. \## Installation The Blackfire
Continuous Profiler Rust library is included by default in all Rust
images. There is no installation required nor minimal Rust version
needed. \## Configuration The Rust continuous profiler is enabled by
default without configuration. It is recommended to build your Rust
application in \[debug
mode\](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch14-01-release-profiles.html) to
benefit from comprehensive stacktrace and information that could be
obfuscated and collapsed otherwise. \`\`\`shell \$ cargo build \`\`\`
#Define relationships between your multiple apps When you set up a
project containing multiple applications, by default your apps can\'t
communicate with each other. To enable connections, define relationships
between apps using the \`http\` endpoint. You can\'t define circular
relationships. If \`app1\` has a relationship to \`app2\`, then \`app2\`
can\'t have a relationship to \`app1\`. If you need data to go both
ways, consider coordinating through a shared data store, like a database
or \[RabbitMQ server\](/add-services/rabbitmq.md). Relationships between
apps use HTTP, not HTTPS. This is still secure because they\'re internal
and not exposed to the outside world. \## Relationships example You have
two apps, \`app1\` and \`app2\`, and \`app1\` needs data from \`app2\`.
In your app configuration for \`app1\`, define a relationship to
\`app2\`: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: app1: relationships: api: service:
\"app2\" endpoint: \"http\" \`\`\` Once they\'re both built, \`app1\`
can access \`app2\` at the following URL: \`http://api.internal\`. The
specific URL is always available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables),
or through the \[\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables):

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

Terminal on app1 container `$ echo $API_HOST api.internal`

It uses the `jq` library, which is included in all app containers for
this purpose.

Terminal on app1 container
`$ echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq '.api[0].host' api.internal`
#Solr (Search service) Apache Solr is a scalable and fault-tolerant
search index. Solr search with generic schemas provided, and a custom
schema is also supported. See the \[Solr
documentation\](https://lucene.apache.org/solr/6_3_0/index.html) for
more information. \## Supported versions You can select the major and
minor version. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and
the like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest available
patches.

-   9.6
-   9.4
-   9.2
-   9.1
-   8.11

\### Deprecated versions The following versions are
\[deprecated\](/glossary.html#deprecated-versions). They\'re available,
but they aren\'t receiving security updates from upstream and aren\'t
guaranteed to work. They\'ll be removed in the future, so migrate to one
of the \[supported versions\](#supported-versions).

-   8.6
-   8.4
-   8.0
-   7.7
-   7.6
-   6.6
-   6.3
-   4.10
-   3.6

\## Relationship reference For each service \[defined via a
relationship\](#usage-example) to your application, Upsun automatically
generates corresponding environment variables within your application
container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format. Here is example information
available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`SOLR_USERNAME= SOLR_SCHEME=solr SOLR_SERVICE=solr SOLR_IP=123.456.78.90 SOLR_FRAGMENT= SOLR_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.solr.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site SOLR_PORT=8080 SOLR_CLUSTER=azertyuiopqsdf-main-afdwftq SOLR_HOST=solr.internal SOLR_REL=solr SOLR_PATH=solr/collection1 SOLR_QUERY={} SOLR_PASSWORD= SOLR_EPOCH=0 SOLR_TYPE=solr:9.6 SOLR_PUBLIC=false SOLR_HOST_MAPPED=false`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "username": null, "scheme": "solr", "service": "solr", "fragment": null, "ip": "123.456.78.90", "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.solr.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "port": 8080, "cluster": "azertyuiopqsdf-main-afdwftq", "host": "solr.internal", "rel": "solr", "path": "solr\/collection1", "query": [], "password": null, "type": "solr:9.6", "public": false, "host_mapped": false }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_SOLR_HOST="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.solr[0].host')"`
\## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`\`solr\`\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the
service container. Must be unique within a project. : type: solr: \`\`\`
Note that changing the name of the service replaces it with a brand new
service and all existing data is lost. Back up your data before changing
the service. \### 2. Define the relationship To define the relationship,
use the following configuration:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <SERVICE_NAME>:`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` as you like, so long as it's unique
between all defined services and matches in both the application and
services configuration.

The example above leverages [default
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
[relationship](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the *name* of that service.

Depending on your needs, instead of default endpoint configuration, you
can use [explicit endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container (`<APP_NAME>`) now
has access to the service via the relationship `<SERVICE_NAME>` and its
corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. <APP_NAME>: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>: service: <SERVICE_NAME> endpoint: solr`

You can define `<SERVICE_NAME>` and `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` as you like,
so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit
endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships)
configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration, you
can use [default endpoint
configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships).

With the above definition, the application container now has [access to
the service](#use-in-app) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and
its corresponding [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

\### Example configuration

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: solr: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. solr: type: solr:9.6`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: solr: service: solr endpoint: solr services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. solr: type: solr:9.6`
\### Use in app To use the configured service in your app, add a
configuration file similar to the following to your project.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows simplified configuration leveraging a default service # (identified from the relationship name) and a default endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: solr: services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. solr: type: solr:9.6`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" [...] # Relationships enable access from this app to a given service. # The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint. # See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints. relationships: solr: service: solr endpoint: solr services: # The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. solr: type: solr:9.6`
This configuration defines a single application (\`myapp\`), whose
source code exists in the \`/myapp\` directory. \`myapp\` has access to
the \`solr\` service, via a relationship whose name is \[identical to
the service name\](#2-define-the-relationship) (as per \[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships). From this, \`\`myapp\`\` can retrieve
access credentials to the service through the \[relationship environment
variables\](#relationship-reference). \`\`\`bash {} \# Set environment
variables for individual credentials. \# For more information, please
visit
https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables.
export QUEUE_SCHEME=\${SOLR_SCHEME} export
QUEUE_USERNAME=\${SOLR_USERNAME} export QUEUE_PASSWORD=\${SOLR_PASSWORD}
export QUEUE_HOST=\${SOLR_HOST} export QUEUE_PORT=\${SOLR_PORT} \# Set a
single RabbitMQ connection string variable for AMQP. export
AMQP_URL=\"\${QUEUE_SCHEME}://\${QUEUE_USERNAME}:\${QUEUE_PASSWORD}@\${QUEUE_HOST}:\${QUEUE_PORT}/\"
\`\`\` The above file --- \`\`.environment\`\` in the \`\`myapp\`\`
directory --- is automatically sourced by Upsun into the runtime
environment, so that the variable \`\`SEARCH_URL\`\` can be used within
the application to connect to the service. Note that \`\`SEARCH_URL\`\`,
and all Upsun \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
like \`\`SOLR_HOST\`\`, are environment-dependent. Unlike the build
produced for a given commit, they can't be reused across environments
and only allow your app to connect to a single service instance on a
single environment. A file very similar to this is generated
automatically for your when using the \`\`upsun ify\`\` command to
\[migrate a codebase to Upsun\](/get-started/\_index.md). \## Solr 4 For
Solr 4, Upsun supports only a single core per server called
\`collection1\`. You must provide your own Solr configuration via a
\`core_config\` key in your \`.upsun/config.yaml\`: \`\`\`yaml {}
services: \# The name of the service container. Must be unique within a
project. solr: type: \"solr:4.10\" configuration: core_config: !archive
\"DIRECTORY\" \`\`\` DIRECTORY points to a directory in the Git
repository, in or below the \`.upsun/\` folder. This directory needs to
contain everything that Solr needs to start a core. At the minimum,
\`solrconfig.xml\` and \`schema.xml\`. For example, place them in
\`.upsun/solr/conf/\` such that the \`schema.xml\` file is located at
\`.upsun/solr/conf/schema.xml\`. You can then reference that path like
this - \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the service container.
Must be unique within a project. solr: type: \"solr:4.10\"
configuration: core_config: !archive \"solr/conf/\" \`\`\` \## Solr 6
and later For Solr 6 and later Upsun supports multiple cores via
different endpoints. Cores and endpoints are defined separately, with
endpoints referencing cores. Each core may have its own configuration or
share a configuration. It is best illustrated with an example.
\`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the service container. Must be
unique within a project. solr: type: solr:9.6 configuration: cores:
mainindex: conf_dir: !archive \"core1-conf\" extraindex: conf_dir:
!archive \"core2-conf\" endpoints: main: core: mainindex extra: core:
extraindex \`\`\` The above definition defines a single Solr 9.6 server.
That server has 2 cores defined: - \`mainindex\` --- the configuration
for which is in the \`.upsun/core1-conf\` directory - \`extraindex\` ---
the configuration for which is in the \`.upsun/core2-conf\` directory.
It then defines two endpoints: \`main\` is connected to the
\`mainindex\` core while \`extra\` is connected to the \`extraindex\`
core. Two endpoints may be connected to the same core but at this time
there would be no reason to do so. Additional options may be defined in
the future. Each endpoint is then available in the relationships
definition in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`. For example, to allow an
application to talk to both of the cores defined above its configuration
should contain the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The name of
the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: type:
\"php:8.4\" source: root: \"myapp\" \[\...\] \# Relationships enable
access from this app to a given service. \# The example below shows
configuration with explicitly set service names and endpoints. \# See
the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and
endpoints. relationships: solrsearch1: service: solr endpoint: main
solrsearch2: service: solr endpoint: extra services: \# The name of the
service container. Must be unique within a project. solr: type: solr:9.6
configuration: cores: mainindex: conf_dir: !archive \"core1-conf\"
extraindex: conf_dir: !archive \"core2-conf\" endpoints: main: core:
mainindex extra: core: extraindex \`\`\` That is, the application\'s
environment would include a \`solrsearch1\` relationship that connects
to the \`main\` endpoint, which is the \`mainindex\` core, and a
\`solrsearch2\` relationship that connects to the \`extra\` endpoint,
which is the \`extraindex\` core. The relationships array would then
look something like the following: \`\`\`json { \"solrsearch1\": \[ {
\"path\": \"solr/mainindex\", \"host\": \"248.0.65.197\", \"scheme\":
\"solr\", \"port\": 8080 } \], \"solrsearch2\": \[ { \"path\":
\"solr/extraindex\", \"host\": \"248.0.65.197\", \"scheme\": \"solr\",
\"port\": 8080 } \] } \`\`\` \### Configsets For even more
customizability, it\'s also possible to define Solr configsets. For
example, the following snippet would define one configset, which would
be used by all cores. Specific details can then be overridden by
individual cores using \`core_properties\`, which is equivalent to the
Solr \`core.properties\` file. \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of
the service container. Must be unique within a project. solr: type:
solr:9.6 configuration: configsets: mainconfig: !archive
\"configsets/solr8\" cores: english_index: core_properties: \|
configSet=mainconfig schema=english/schema.xml arabic_index:
core_properties: \| configSet=mainconfig schema=arabic/schema.xml
endpoints: english: core: english_index arabic: core: arabic_index
\`\`\` In this example, \`.upsun/configsets/solr8\` contains the
configuration definition for multiple cores. There are then two cores
created: - \`english_index\` uses the defined configset, but
specifically the \`.upsun/configsets/solr8/english/schema.xml\` file -
\`arabic_index\` is identical except for using the
\`.upsun/configsets/solr8/arabic/schema.xml\` file. Each of those cores
is then exposed as its own endpoint. Note that not all core properties
features make sense to specify in the \`core_properties\`. Some keys,
such as \`name\` and \`dataDir\`, aren\'t supported, and may result in a
\`solrconfig\` that fails to work as intended, or at all. \### Default
configuration \#### Default for version 9+ If you don\'t specify any
configuration, the following default is used: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \#
The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project.
solr: type: solr:9.6 configuration: cores: collection1: conf_dir:
!archive \"example\" endpoints: solr: core: collection1 \`\`\` The
example configuration directory is equivalent to the \[Solr example
configuration
set\](https://github.com/apache/solr/tree/main/solr/server/solr/configsets/sample_techproducts_configs/conf).
This default configuration is designed only for testing. You are
strongly recommended to define your own configuration with a custom core
and endpoint. \#### Default for versions below 9 If you don\'t specify
any configuration, the following default is used: \`\`\`yaml {}
services: \# The name of the service container. Must be unique within a
project. solr: type: solr:8.4 configuration: cores: collection1: {}
endpoints: solr: core: collection1 \`\`\` The default configuration is
based on an older version of the Drupal 8 Search API Solr module that is
no longer in use. You are strongly recommended to define your own
configuration with a custom core and endpoint. \### Limitations The
recommended maximum size for configuration directories (zipped) is 2MB.
These need to be monitored to ensure they don\'t grow beyond that. If
the zipped configuration directories grow beyond this, performance
declines and deploys become longer. The directory archives are
compressed and string encoded. You could use this bash pipeline
\`\`\`bash echo \$((\$(tar czf - . \| base64 \| wc -c )/(1024\*1024)))
Megabytes \`\`\` inside the directory to get an idea of the archive
size. The configuration directory is a collection of configuration data,
like a data dictionary, e.g. small collections of key/value sets. The
best way to keep the size small is to restrict the directory context to
plain configurations. Including binary data like plugin \`.jar\` files
inflates the archive size, and isn\'t recommended. \## Accessing the
Solr server administrative interface Because Solr uses HTTP for both its
API and admin interface it\'s possible to access the admin interface
over an SSH tunnel. \`\`\`bash upsun tunnel:single \--relationship
RELATIONSHIP_NAME \`\`\` By default, this opens a tunnel at
\`127.0.0.1:30000\`. You can now open \`http://localhost:30000/solr/\`
in a browser to access the Solr admin interface. Note that you can\'t
create indexes or users this way, but you can browse the existing
indexes and manipulate the stored data. \## Available plugins This is
the complete list of plugins that are available and loaded by default:
\| Plugin \| Description \| 8.11 \| 9.x \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\--\|
\|
\[JTS\](https://solr.apache.org/guide/8_1/spatial-search.html#jts-and-polygons-flat)
\| Library for creating and manipulating vector geometry. \|\* \|\* \|
\| \[ICU4J\](https://solr.apache.org/guide/8_3/language-analysis.html)
\| Library providing Unicode and globalization support. \|\* \|\* \| \##
Upgrading The Solr data format sometimes changes between versions in
incompatible ways. Solr doesn\'t include a data upgrade mechanism as it
is expected that all indexes can be regenerated from stable data if
needed. To upgrade (or downgrade) Solr you need to use a new service
from scratch. There are two ways of doing that. \### Destructive In your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file, change the version of your Solr service
\*and\* its name. Be sure to also update the reference to the now
changed service name in it\'s corresponding application\'s
\`relationship\` block. When you push that to Upsun, the old service is
deleted and a new one with the name is created, with no data. You can
then have your application re-index data as appropriate. This approach
has the downside of temporarily having an empty Solr instance, which
your application may or may not handle gracefully, and needing to
rebuild your index afterward. Depending on the size of your data that
could take a while. \### Transitional For a transitional approach you
temporarily have two Solr services. Add a second Solr service with the
new version a new name and give it a new relationship in
\`.upsun/config.yaml\`. You can optionally run in that configuration for
a while to allow your application to populate indexes in the new service
as well. Once you\'re ready to cut over, remove the old Solr service and
relationship. You may optionally have the new Solr service use the old
relationship name if that\'s easier for your application to handle. Your
application is now using the new Solr service. This approach has the
benefit of never being without a working Solr instance. On the downside,
it requires two running Solr servers temporarily, each of which consumes
resources and need adequate disk space. Depending on the size of your
data that may be a lot of disk space. #Set resources You can define how
much CPU, memory, and disk you want to assign to each of your service
and app containers. If you don\'t explicitly set resources, Upsun uses
\[default resources\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md) instead. Upsun
also offers several \[resource initialization
strategies\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md) to help you allocate
resources depending on your needs and use cases. However, for the sake
of this guide, let\'s set resources manually. To do so, follow these
steps: 1. Run the following command: \`\`\`bash {} upsun resources:set
\`\`\` This launches an interactive prompt to walk you through setting
up your application\'s resources: \`\`\`bash {} upsun resources:set
Resource configuration for the project app (123456azerty), environment
main (type: production):
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| App or service \| Size \| CPU \| Memory (MB) \| Disk (MB) \|
Instances \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| myapp \| 1 \| 1 \| 384 \| N/A \| 1 \| \| \[\]\| 0.1 \| 0.1 \| 128 \|
N/A \| 1 \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\`\`\` 2. Select the profile size you want applied to your application
image. For instance, \`0.1\`: \`\`\`bash {} App: myapp Choose a profile
size: \[0.1 \] CPU 0.1, memory 64 MB \[0.25\] CPU 0.25, memory 128 MB
\[0.5 \] CPU 0.5, memory 224 MB \[1 \] CPU 1, memory 384 MB \[2 \] CPU
2, memory 704 MB \[4 \] CPU 4, memory 1216 MB \[6 \] CPU 6, memory 1728
MB \[8 \] CPU 8, memory 2240 MB \[10 \] CPU 10, memory 2688 MB \> 0.1
\`\`\` 3. Define how many
\[instances\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources#horizontal-scaling) of
your application container you want to deploy. For instance, \`1\`:
\`\`\`bash {} Enter the number of instances (default: 1): 1 \`\`\` 4. To
confirm your choices, select \`Y\`. Upsun grabs the previous built
images from earlier, applies your resource selections to them, and
deploys your full application!

### Note

If the deployment fails, you may need to set the resources again.

Back

Revisions

#Varnish Varnish is a popular HTTP proxy server, often used for caching.
You usually don\'t need it with Upsun as the standard router includes
HTTP cache and a CDN would cover more advanced uses. But you can include
Varnish as a service. \## Supported versions You can select the major
and minor version. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes
and the like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest
available patches.

-   7.3
-   7.2
-   6.0

\## How it works All incoming requests go through the \[standard
router\](../define-routes/\_index.md). The Varnish service sits between
the router and all apps in the project. \`\`\` mermaid graph LR
A(Request) \--\>B(Router) B \--\> C{Varnish} C \--\>D\[App 1\] C
\--\>E\[App 2\] \`\`\` \## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service
To define the service, use the \`varnish\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services:
\# The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project. :
type: varnish: relationships: : \':http\' configuration: vcl: !include
type: string path: config.vcl \`\`\` Note that changing the name of the
service replaces it with a brand new service and all existing data is
lost. Back up your data before changing the service. The
\`relationships\` block defines the connection between Varnish and your
app. You can define `RELATIONSHIP_NAME` as you like. `APP_NAME` should
match your app\'s \`name\` in the \[app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md). The
\`configuration\` block must reference a VCL file inside the \`.upsun\`
directory. The \`path\` defines the file relative to the \`.upsun\`
directory. \#### Example configuration \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \#
The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp:
\... services: \# The name of the service container. Must be unique
within a project. varnish: type: varnish:7.3 relationships: application:
\'myapp:http\' configuration: vcl: !include type: string path:
config.vcl \`\`\` Notice the \`relationship\` (\`application\`) defined
for the service \`varnish\` granting access to the application container
\`myapp\`. \### 2. Create a VCL template To tell Varnish how to handle
traffic, in the \`.upsun\` directory add a \[Varnish Configuration
Language (VCL)
template\](https://www.varnish-software.com/developers/tutorials/example-vcl-template/).
This template is supplemented by automatic additions from Upsun. So you
MUST NOT include certain features that you might elsewhere: - A
\`vcl_init()\` function: The function is automatically generated based
on the relationships you defined in Step 1. Each defined relationship
results in a backend with the same name. - The VCL version at the start:
This is automatically generated. - Imports for \`std\` or \`directors\`:
These are already imported. You can import other
\[modules\](#include-modules). The file MUST include: - A definition of
which backend to use in a \`vcl_recv()\` subroutine. The logic varies
based on whether you have one or more apps.

### Note

Misconfigured VCL files can result in incorrect and confusing behavior
that's hard to debug. Upsun doesn't help with VCL configuration options
beyond the basic connection logic documented here.

You can see any compilation errors with the [stats
endpoint](#stats-endpoint).

\#### Example VCL template with one app To serve one app, your VCL
template needs at least the following function: \`\`\`bash { } sub
vcl_recv { set req.backend_hint = RELATIONSHIP_NAME.backend(); } \`\`\`
Where \`RELATIONSHIP_NAME\` is the name of the relationship you defined
in \[Step 1\](#1-configure-the-service). With the \[example
configuration\](#example-configuration), that would be the following:
\`\`\`bash {} sub vcl_recv { set req.backend_hint =
application.backend(); } \`\`\` \#### Example VCL template with multiple
apps If you have multiple apps fronted by the same Varnish instance,
your VCL templates needs logic to determine where each request is
forwarded. For example, you might have the following configuration for
two apps: \`\`\`yaml {} \# The name of the service container. Must be
unique within a project. services: varnish: type: varnish:7.3
relationships: blog: service: blog endpoint: http main: service: myapp
endpoint: http configuration: vcl: !include type: string path:
config.vcl applications: \# The name of the app container. Must be
unique within a project. blog: \# The location of the application\'s
code. source: root: \"backends/blog\" \# The type of the application to
build. type: \"php:8.4\" \# The name of the app container. Must be
unique within a project. myapp: \# The location of the application\'s
code. source: root: \"backends/main\" \# The type of the application to
build. type: \"nodejs:8.4\" \`\`\` You could then define that all
requests to \`/blog/\` go to the \`blog\` app and all other requests to
the other app: \`\`\`bash {} sub vcl_recv { if (req.url \~ \"\^/blog/\")
{ set req.backend_hint = blog.backend(); } else { set req.backend_hint =
main.backend(); } } \`\`\` \### 3. Route incoming requests to Varnish
Edit your \[route definitions\](../define-routes/\_index.md) to point to
the Varnish service you just created. Also disable the router cache as
Varnish now provides caching. To forward all incoming requests to
Varnish rather than your app, you could have the following: \`\`\`yaml
{} routes: \"https://{default}/\": type: upstream upstream:
\"varnish:http\" cache: enabled: false \`\`\` Varnish forwards requests
to your app based on the specified VCL template. \## Include modules You
can include the following optional modules in your VCL templates to add
additional features: - \`cookie\` - \`header\` - \`saintmode\` -
\`softpurge\` - \`tcp\` - \`var\` - \`vsthrottle\` - \`xkey\` To use
them, add an import to your template such as the following: \`\`\`bash
{} import xkey; \`\`\` \## Circular relationships At this time, Upsun
doesn\'t support circular relationships between services and apps. That
means you can\'t add a relationship from an app fronted by Varnish to
the Varnish service. If you do so, then one of the relationships is
skipped and the connection doesn\'t work. \## Rate limit connections
Sometimes you want to ensure that users, whether human or machine,
can\'t overload your app with requests. One tool to help is using
Varnish to limit the rate at which connections can be made. For example,
say you want to make sure no one can make more than 20 requests within
10 seconds. If they do, you want to block them from any more requests
for 2 minutes. To do so, \[import the \`vsthrottle\`
module\](#include-modules) and add logic similar to the following to
your VCL template: \`\`\`bash {} import vsthrottle; sub vcl_recv { \#
The Upsun router provides the real client IP as X-Client-IP \# This
replaces client.identity in other implementations if
(vsthrottle.is_denied(req.http.X-Client-IP, 20, 10s, 120s)) { \# Client
has exceeded 20 requests in 10 seconds. \# When this happens, block that
IP for the next 120 seconds. return (synth(429, \"Too Many Requests\"));
} \# Set the standard backend for handling requests that aren\'t limited
set req.backend_hint = application.backend(); } \`\`\` \## Clear cache
with a push You may want at times to clear a specific part of your cache
when you know the content is outdated. With Varnish, you can clear the
content with \[purging and
banning\](https://varnish-cache.org/docs/trunk/users-guide/purging.html).
The following example shows how to set up purging. 1. Add an access
control list to your VCL template: \`\`\`bash {} acl purge {
\"localhost\"; \"192.0.2.0\"/24; } \`\`\` This list ensures that only
requests from the listed IPs are accepted. Choose which IPs to allow. If
you are sending requests from an app, checkout the \[outbound IPs for
the region\](../development/regions.md#public-ip-addresses).
Alternatively, you could code in a token that must be sent with the
request. 2. Add purge handling: \`\`\`bash {} sub vcl_recv { if
(req.method == \"PURGE\") { \# The Upsun router provides the real client
IP as X-Client-IP \# Use std.ip to convert the string to an IP for
comparison if (!std.ip(req.http.X-Client-IP, \"0.0.0.0\") \~ purge) { \#
Deny all purge requests not from the allowed IPs return(synth(403,\"Not
allowed.\")); } \# Purge cache for allowed requests return (purge); }
\... } \`\`\`

### Note

The snippet above has been produced for Varnish 7.x. If using a
different version, consult the Varnish documentation for potential
differences in syntax and required parameters.

3\. Set up cache purging to suit your needs. The following cURL call
gives an example of how this can work: \`\`\`bash curl -X PURGE
\"URL_TO_PURGE\" \`\`\` \## Stats endpoint The Varnish service also
offers an \`http+stats\` endpoint, which provides access to some Varnish
analysis and debugging tools. You can\'t use it from an app fronted by
Varnish because of the restriction with \[circular
relationships\](#circular-relationships). To access the stats, create a
\*\*separate app\*\* (\`stats-app\`) with a relationship \*to\* Varnish,
but not \*from\* it. Define \[app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md)
similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The name of the
app container. Must be unique within a project. stats-app: \# The
location of the application\'s code. source: root: \"stats\" \# The type
of the application to build. type: \"python:3.9\" \# Unique relationship
\_to\_ Varnish from \'stats-app\', where no relationship \# is defined
\_from\_ Varnish to the same app, to avoid circular relationships.
relationships: varnishstats: service: varnish endpoint: http+stats \#
The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project.
main-app: \# The location of the application\'s code. source: root:
\"backends/main\" \# The type of the application to build. type:
\"nodejs:22\" services: \# The name of the service container. Must be
unique within a project. varnish: type: varnish:7.3 \# Unique
relationship \_from\_ Varnish \_to\_ \'main-app\', where no relationship
\# is defined \_to\_ Varnish to the same app, to avoid circular
relationships. relationships: main: service: \"main-app\" endpoint:
\"http configuration: vcl: !include type: string path: config.vcl \`\`\`
You choose any valid name and type. When the app is deployed, the app
can access the Varnish service over HTTP to get diagnostic information.
The following paths are available: - \`/\`: returns any error logged
when generating the VCL template failed - \`/config\`: returns the
generated VCL template - \`/stats\`: returns the output of
\`varnishstat\` - \`/logs\`: returns a streaming response of
\`varnishlog\` To access the Varnish stats endpoint from the command
line: 1. Connect to your stats app \[using
SSH\](../development/ssh/\_index.md): \`upsun ssh \--app stats-app\`
(replace \`stats-app\` with the name you gave the app). 2. Display the
\[relationships
array\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#relationships)
with \`echo \$PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS \| base64 -d \| jq .\`, 3. Query
Varnish with \`curl HOST:PORT/stats\`, replacing \`HOST\` and \`PATH\`
with the values from Step 2. #Make changes to your project Upsun allows
you to make changes to your project and test them on a preview
environment before introducing them to Production. In your project, the
default branch (e.g. \`main\`, \`master\`, whichever chosen during
project creation) always represents the production environment. Other
branches are for developing new features, fixing bugs, or updating the
infrastructure. To make changes to your project, follow these steps:
\## 1. Create a new environment Create a new environment (a Git branch)
to make changes without impacting production: Run the following command:
\`\`\`bash {} upsun branch feat-a \`\`\` This creates a new local
\`feat-a\` Git branch based on the \`main\` Git branch and activates a
related environment on Upsun. The new environment inherits the data
(service data and assets) of its parent environment (the production
environment here). \## 2. Make changes to your project Depending on the
stack you\'re using, change something within your source code. \## 3.
Commit your changes \`\`\`bash {} git add index.js git commit -m
\"Update source code\" \`\`\` \## 4. Deploy your changes Deploy your
changes to the \`feat-a\` environment: \`\`\`bash {} upsun push \`\`\`
Note that each environment has its own domain name. To open the URL of
your new environment, run the following command: \`\`\`bash {} upsun
environment:url \--primary \`\`\`

### Warnings

If your environment is inactive, you need to [activate
it](/environments/deactivate-environment.html#reactivate-an-environment)
first, using the following command:

Terminal `upsun environment:activate`

\## 5. Iterate Iterate by changing the code, committing, and deploying.
When satisfied with your changes, merge them to the main branch, and
remove the feature branch: \`\`\`bash {} upsun merge Are you sure you
want to merge feat-a into its parent, main? \[Y/n\] y upsun checkout
main git pull upsun main upsun environment:delete feat-a git fetch
\--prune \`\`\`

### Note

Deploying after a merge is fast because the image built for the feature
environment is reused for the targeted environment.

\## 6. Keep your branch up to date For a long running development
branch, to keep the code up-to-date with the \`main\` branch, use \`git
merge main\` or \`git rebase main\`. You can also keep the data in sync
with the parent environment by using \[\`upsun env:sync
data\`\](/administration/cli/reference.html#environmentsynchronize).

Back

Local development

#Vault key management service The Vault key management service (KMS)
provides key management and access control for your secrets. The Upsun
Vault KMS offers the \[transit secrets
engine\](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/secrets/transit) to
sign, verify, encrypt, decrypt, and rewrap information. Vault doesn\'t
store the data sent to the transit secrets engine, so it can be viewed
as encryption as a service. To store secrets such as API keys, create
sensitive \[environment
variables\](../development/variables/\_index.md). \## Supported versions
You can select the major and minor version. Patch versions are applied
periodically for bug fixes and the like. When you deploy your app, you
always get the latest available patches.

-   1.12

\## Relationship reference For each service \[defined via a
relationship\](#usage-example) to your application, Upsun automatically
generates corresponding environment variables within your application
container, in the \`\`\$\_\`\` format. Here is example information
available through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

You can obtain the complete list of available service environment
variables in your app container by running `upsun ssh env`.

Note that the information about the relationship can change when an app
is redeployed or restarted or the relationship is changed. So your apps
should only rely on the [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values.

`VAULT_USERNAME= VAULT_SCHEME=http VAULT_SERVICE=vault-kms VAULT_FRAGMENT= VAULT_IP=123.456.78.90 VAULT_INSTANCE_IPS=['123.456.78.90'] VAULT_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.vault-kms.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site VAULT_PORT=8200 VAULT_CLUSTER=azertyuiopqsdf-main-afdwftq VAULT_HOST=vault_secret.internal VAULT_REL=manage_keys VAULT_PATH=/ VAULT_QUERY={'is_master': True} VAULT_PASSWORD=ChangeMe VAULT_EPOCH=0 VAULT_TYPE=vault-kms:1.12 VAULT_PUBLIC=false VAULT_HOST_MAPPED=false`

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).
The structure of the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable can
be obtained by running `upsun relationships` in your terminal:

`{ "username": "", "scheme": "http", "service": "vault-kms", "fragment": "", "ip": "123.456.78.90", "instance_ips": [ "123.456.78.90" ], "hostname": "azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.vault-kms.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site", "port": 8200, "cluster": "azertyuiopqsdf-main-7rqtwti", "host": "vault_secret.internal", "rel": "sign", "path": "\/", "query": { "is_master": true }, "password": "ChangeMe", "type": "vault-kms:1.12", "public": false, "host_mapped": false }`

Here is an example of how to gather [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS`
environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables)
information in a [`.environment`
file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#use-env-files):

.environment
`# Decode the built-in credentials object variable. export RELATIONSHIPS_JSON=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode) # Set environment variables for individual credentials. export APP_VAULT_HOST=="$(echo $RELATIONSHIPS_JSON | jq -r '.vault_secret[0].host')"`
\## Usage example \### 1. Configure the service To define the service,
use the \`vault-kms\` type: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name of the
service container. Must be unique within a project. : type: vault-kms:
configuration: endpoints: : - policy: key: type: \`\`\` Note that
changing the name of the service replaces it with a brand new service
and all existing data is lost. Back up your data before changing the
service. - SERVICE_NAME is the name you choose to identify the
service. - VERSION is a supported version of the service. - ENDPOINT_ID
is an identifier you choose for the endpoint. - KEY_NAME is the name of
the key to be stored in the Vault KMS. - POLICY is one of the available
\[policies\](#policies) based on what you want to accomplish. - The
\`type\` is one of: - \`sign\`: for signing payloads, with the type
\`ecdsa-p256\` - \`encrypt\` (for encrypt\`chacha20-poly1305\`). The
\`type\` can\'t be changed after creation. You can create multiple
endpoints, such as to have key management separate from key use. 512 MB
is the minimum required disk space for the Vault KMS service. \### 2.
Define the relationship To define the relationship, use the following
configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The name of the app
container. Must be unique within a project. : \# Relationships enable
access from this app to a given service. relationships: : service:
endpoint: services: \# The name of the service container. Must be unique
within a project. : type: vault-kms: configuration: endpoints: : -
policy: key: type: \`\`\` You can define \`\` as you like, so long as
it\'s unique between all defined services and matches in both the
application and services configuration. The example above leverages
\[default
endpoint\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
configuration for relationships. That is, it uses default endpoints
behind-the-scenes, providing a
\[relationship\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
(the network address a service is accessible from) that is identical to
the \_name\_ of that service. Depending on your needs, instead of
default endpoint configuration, you can use \[explicit endpoint
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships).
With the above definition, the application container (\`\`\`\`) now has
access to the service via the relationship \`\`\`\` and its
corresponding \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables).
If you split the service into multiple endpoints, define multiple
relationships. \### Example configuration \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \#
The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp:
relationships: vault_secret: \"vault-kms:manage_keys\" services: \# The
name of the service container. Must be unique within a project.
vault-kms: type: vault-kms:1.12 configuration: endpoints: manage_keys: -
policy: admin key: vault-sign type: sign - policy: sign key: vault-sign
type: sign - policy: verify key: vault-sign type: sign \`\`\` \##
Multiple endpoints example \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The name of
the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp:
relationships: vault_manage: service: vault-kms endpoint: management
vault_sign: service: vault-kms endpoint: sign_and_verify services: \#
The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project.
vault-kms: type: vault-kms:1.12 configuration: endpoints: management: -
policy: admin key: admin-key type: sign sign_and_verify: - policy: sign
key: signing-key type: sign - policy: verify key: signing-key type: sign
\`\`\` \## Use Vault KMS To connect your app to the Vault KMS, use a
token that\'s defined in the \[service environment
variables\](#relationship-reference). With this token for
authentication, you can use any of the policies you \[defined in your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file\](#1-configure-the-service). You can obtain
the complete list of available service environment variables in your app
container by running \`\`upsun ssh env\`\`. Note that the information
about the relationship can change when an app is redeployed or restarted
or the relationship is changed. So your apps should only rely on the
\[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
directly rather than hard coding any values. The following examples use
cURL as an example, which you could do in a hook or after accessing your
app with SSH. Adapt the examples for your app\'s language. \### Get the
token To make any calls to the Vault KMS, you need your token. Get it
from the \[service environment variables\](#relationship-reference):
\`\`\`bash echo \${RELATIONSHIP_NAME_PASSWORD}\" \`\`\`
\`RELATIONSHIP_NAME\` is the relationship name you \[defined in your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file\](#2-define-the-relationship). You can also
store this as a variable: \`\`\`bash
VAULT_TOKEN=\${RELATIONSHIP_NAME_PASSWORD} \`\`\` A given token is valid
for one year from its creation. \### Get the right URL The \[service
environment variable\](#relationship-reference) also contains the
information you need to construct a URL for contacting the Vault KMS:
the \`host\` and \`port\`. Assign it to a variable as follows:
\`\`\`bash
VAULT_URL=\${RELATIONSHIP_NAME_HOST}:\${RELATIONSHIP_NAME_PORT} \`\`\`
\`RELATIONSHIP_NAME\` is the name you \[defined in your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file\](#2-define-the-relationship). \### Manage
your keys Your key names are \[defined in your \`.upsun/config.yaml\`
file\](#1-configure-the-service). You can manage them if you\'ve set an
\[admin policy\](#policies) for them. To get information on a key, such
as its expiration date, run the following command: \`\`\`bash curl \\
\--header \"X-Vault-Token: \$VAULT_TOKEN\" \\
http://\"\$VAULT_URL\"/v1/transit/keys/\"\$KEY_NAME\" \| jq . \`\`\`
\`\$KEY_NAME\` is the name in your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. To
rotate the version of your key, run the following command: \`\`\`bash
curl \\ \--header \"X-Vault-Token: \$VAULT_TOKEN\" \\
http://\"\$VAULT_URL\"/v1/transit/keys/\"\$KEY_NAME\"\>/rotate \\
\--request POST \`\`\` \### Sign and verify payloads If you\'ve set
\[sign and verify policies\](#policies), you can use your keys to sign
and verify various payloads, such as a JSON Web Token (JWT) for
authentication in your app. Note that all payloads (all plaintext data)
must be base64-encoded. To sign a specific payload, run the following
command: \`\`\`bash curl \\ \--header \"X-Vault-Token: \$VAULT_TOKEN\"
\\ http://\$VAULT_URL/v1/transit/sign/\"\$KEY_NAME\"/sha2-512 \\ \--data
\"{\\\"input\\\": \\\"\$(echo SECRET \| base64)\\\"}\" \`\`\` The string
at the end of the URL denotes the specific \[hash algorithm used by the
Vault
KMS\](https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/transit#hash_algorithm).
You get back a JSON object that includes the signature for the payload:
\`\`\`json { \"request_id\": \"a58b549f-1356-4028-d191-4c9cd585ca25\",
\... \"data\": { \"key_version\": 1, \"signature\":
\"vault-kms:v1:MEUCIAiN4UtXh\...\" }, \... } \`\`\` You can then use
\`data.signature\` to sign things such as a JWT. To verify a payload,
run the following command: \`\`\`bash curl \\ \--header \"X-Vault-Token:
\$VAULT_TOKEN\" \\
http://\"\$VAULT_URL\"/v1/transit/verify/\"\$KEY_NAME\"/sha2-512 \\
\--data \" { \\\"input\\\": \\\"\$(echo SECRET \| base64)\\\",
\\\"signature\\\": \\\"\$SIGNATURE\\\" }\" \`\`\` You get back a JSON
object that includes whether or not the signature is valid: \`\`\`json {
\"request_id\": \"5b624718-fd9d-37f6-8b95-b387379d2648\", \... \"data\":
{ \"valid\": true }, \... } \`\`\` A \`true\` value means the signature
matches and a \`false\` value means it doesn\'t. \### Encrypt and
decrypt data If you\'ve set \[encrypt and decrypt policies\](#policies),
you can use your keys to encrypt and decrypt any data you want. Note
that all of plaintext data you work with must be base64-encoded. To sign
a specific payload, run the following command: \`\`\`bash curl \\
\--header \"X-Vault-Token: \$VAULT_TOKEN\" \\
http://\$VAULT_URL/v1/transit/encrypt/\"\$KEY_NAME\" \\ \--data
\"{\\\"plaintext\\\": \\\"\$(echo SECRET \| base64)\\\"}\" \`\`\` You
get back a JSON object that includes your encrypted data: \`\`\`json {
\"request_id\": \"690d634a-a4fb-bdd6-9947-e895578b79d5\", \... \"data\":
{ \"ciphertext\": \"vault-kms:v1:LEtOWSwh3N\...\", \"key_version\": 1 },
\... } \`\`\` To decrypt data that you\'ve already encrypted, run the
following command: \`\`\`bash curl \\ \--header \"X-Vault-Token:
\$VAULT_TOKEN\" \\
http://\"\$VAULT_URL\"/v1/transit/decrypt/\"\$KEY_NAME\" \\ \--data \" {
\\\"ciphertext\\\": \\\"\$CIPHERTEXT\\\" }\" \`\`\` You get back a JSON
object that your decrypted data base64-encoded: \`\`\`json {
\"request_id\": \"bbd411ca-6ed7-aa8b-8177-0f35055ce613\", \... \"data\":
{ \"plaintext\": \"U0VDUkVUCg==\" }, \... } \`\`\` To get the value
un-encoded, add \`\| jq -r \".data.plaintext\" \| base64 -d\` to the end
of the \`curl\` command. \#### Rewrap encrypted data If you have already
encrypted data and you have \[changed your key
version\](#manage-your-keys), you can rewrap the encrypted data with the
new key. Assuming \`\$CIPHERTEXT\` stores your encrypted data
(\`vault:v1:LEtOWSwh3N\...\`), run the following command: \`\`\`bash
curl \\ \--header \"X-Vault-Token: \$VAULT_TOKEN\" \\
http://\"\$VAULT_URL\"/v1/transit/rewrap/\"\$KEY_NAME\" \\ \--data \" {
\\\"ciphertext\\\": \\\"\$CIPHERTEXT\\\" }\" \`\`\` In the JSON object
that\'s returned, you can notice that the \`ciphertext\` is different
(and now includes the new key version as a prefix) as is the
\`key_version\`: \`\`\`json { \... \"data\": { \"ciphertext\":
\"vault-kms:v2:ICRi0yAlH\...\", \"key_version\": 2 }, \... } \`\`\` \##
Policies \| Policy \| Endpoint \| Capabilities \| Purpose \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| \`admin\` \| \`transit/keys/\${KEY}\` \| \`read\` \|
Access to key properties and various functions performed on keys such as
rotation and deletion \| \| \| \`transit/keys/\${KEY}/\*\` \| \`read\`,
\`create\`, \`update\`, \`delete\` \| \| \| \`sign\` \|
\`transit/sign/\${KEY}/\${HASH_ALGORITHM}\` \| \`read\`, \`update\` \|
Signing payloads with an existing key \| \| \`verify\` \|
\`transit/verify/\${KEY}/\${HASH_ALGORITHM}\` \| \`read\`, \`update\` \|
Verifying already signed payloads \| \| \`encrypt\` \|
\`transit/encrypt/\${KEY}\` \| \`read\`, \`update\` \| Encrypting data
with an existing key \| \| \`decrypt\` \| \`transit/decrypt/\${KEY}\` \|
\`read\`, \`update\` \| Decrypting data with an existing key \| \|
\`rewrap\` \| \`transit/rewrap/\${KEY}\` \| \`read\`, \`update\` \|
Re-encrypting data with a new key version without revealing the secret
\| #Third party integrations In this guide, you\'ve configured and
deployed a local copy of your codebase to Upsun. You can continue to
work, but the primary remote your team would share would be Upsun
itself. It\'s more likely that your codebase is on a third party Git
service like GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket. Now that you\'ve learned the
basics of Upsun configuration and deployment, you can create new
projects within the management console, by choosing the \*\*Connect
repository\*\* option to set up a GitHub application. At this stage, if
you want to make another remote (i.e. \`origin\`) the primary remote,
and Upsun a deployment mirror, you can override your current
configuration by setting up an integration: -
\[BitBucket\](/integrations/source/bitbucket.md) -
\[GitHub\](/integrations/source/github.md) -
\[GitLab\](/integrations/source/gitlab.md) Once the integration is
added, all commits on the service are mirrored, built, and deployed on
Upsun.

Back

Getting support

#Get support There are virtually no restrictions to you deploying any
kind of application on Upsun, and we\'re excited to hear about your
experiments! Follow the links below to share your work, ask the
community for help, and peek in on what others are working on. Welcome
to the Upsun community! Join us on Discord Ask a question on the forum

#FAQ \## How can I access my application logs? To display the
application log file (\`/var/log/app.log\` file), run the following
command: \`\`\`bash upsun log app \--tail \`\`\` All the log messages
generated by your app are sent to this \`/var/log/app.log\` file. This
includes language errors such as PHP errors, warnings, notices, as well
as uncaught exceptions. The file also contains your application logs if
you log on \`stderr\`. This log doesn\'t include the default
\`laravel.log\` located in \`/storage\`.

### Note

Upsun manages the `app.log` file for you. This is to prevent disks from
getting filled and using very fast local drives instead of slower
network disks. Make sure your apps always output their logs to `stderr`.

With Laravel, you can change your logging configuration to use
\`memory\` and stream \`php://stderr\`. In your \`config/logging.php\`
file, add or update the following configuration: \`\`\`php {} \'memory\'
=\> \[ \'driver\' =\> \'monolog\', \'handler\' =\>
Monolog\\Handler\\StreamHandler::class, \'with\' =\> \[ \'stream\' =\>
\'php://stderr\', \], \'processors\' =\> \[ // Simple syntax\...
Monolog\\Processor\\MemoryUsageProcessor::class, // With options\... \[
\'processor\' =\> Monolog\\Processor\\PsrLogMessageProcessor::class,
\'with\' =\> \[\'removeUsedContextFields\' =\> true\], \], \], \],
\`\`\`

### Warning

If you log deprecations, make sure you **also** log them on `stderr`.

\## What\'s this \"\`Oops! An Error Occurred\`\" message about? The
\`Oops! An Error Occurred\` message comes from your app and is
automatically generated based on the Laravel error template. \### The
server returned a \"\`500 Internal Server Error\`\" If your app\'s
working as expected locally but you see the previous error message on
Upsun, it usually means you have a configuration error or a missing
dependency. To fix this issue, search your application logs. They likely
contain an error message describing the root cause: \`\`\`bash upsun
logs all \[app\] \[14-Aug-2020 10:52:27 UTC\] \[critical\] Uncaught PHP
Exception Exception: \[\...\] \[app\] \[php.access\]
2020-08-14T10:52:27Z GET 500 2.386 ms 2048 kB 419.11% / \[access\]
78.247.136.119 - - \[14/Aug/2020:10:52:27 +0000\] \"GET / HTTP/1.1\" 500
843 \"-\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_6)
AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/84.0.4147.125
Safari/537.36\" \`\`\` If the error occurs on a preview environment, or
on the main environment of a non-production project, you can also enable
Laravel\'s dev/debug mode to inspect the cause of the error via the
\`APP_DEBUG\` \[environment variable\](./environment-variables.md) in
your \`.environment\` file or via \[upsun
console\](/development/variables): \`\`\`bash \# Enable debug mode
export APP_DEBUG=1 \# Disable debug mode export APP_DEBUG=0 \`\`\` \##
Other issues For other issues unrelated to Laravel, see \[Troubleshoot
development\](/development/troubleshoot.html).

Back #FAQ \## Why is \`DATABASE_URL\` not defined during the build hook?
During the build hook, services are not available to avoid breaking the
application that is still live. That is why the Symfony integration does
not expose environment variables during the build hook. The
\`cache:clear\` command does not need to connect to the database by
default, except if you are using the Doctrine ORM and the database
engine version is not set in your configuration. The version information
can be set in your \`.env\` file or in the \`doctrine.yaml\`
configuration file. The only important pieces of information there are
the database engine and the version; everything else will be ignored.
Note that the environment variables are available in the deploy hook.
\## How can I access my application logs? To display the application log
file (\`/var/log/app.log\` file), run the following command: \`\`\`bash
symfony log app \--tail \`\`\` All the log messages generated by your
app are sent to this \`/var/log/app.log\` file. This includes language
errors such as PHP errors, warnings, notices, as well as uncaught
exceptions. The file also contains your application logs if you log on
\`stderr\`. Note that Upsun manages the \`/var/log/app.log\` file for
you. This is to prevent disks from getting filled and using very fast
local drives instead of slower network disks. Make sure your apps always
output their logs to \`stderr\`. If you use Monolog, add the following
configuration to your \`config/packages/prod/monolog.yaml\` file:
\`\`\`gitignore \-\-- a/config/packages/prod/monolog.yaml +++
b/config/packages/prod/monolog.yaml @@ -11,7 +11,7 @@ monolog: members:
\[nested, buffer\] nested: type: stream - path:
\"%kernel.logs_dir%/%kernel.environment%.log\" + path: php://stderr
level: debug buffer: type: buffer \`\`\`

### Warning

If you log deprecations, make sure you **also** log them on `stderr`.

\## What\'s this \"Oops! An Error Occurred\" message about? The \*Oops!
An Error Occurred\* message comes from your app and is automatically
generated based on the Symfony error template. \### The server returned
a \"500 Internal Server Error\" \![A 500 error page in production
mode\](/images/symfony/production-error-500.png \"0.35\") If your app\'s
working as expected locally but you see the previous error message on
Upsun, it usually means you have a configuration error or a missing
dependency. To fix this issue, search your application logs. They likely
contain an error message describing the root cause: \`\`\`bash symfony
logs all \[app\] \[14-Aug-2020 10:52:27 UTC\] \[critical\] Uncaught PHP
Exception Exception: \[\...\] \[app\] \[php.access\]
2020-08-14T10:52:27Z GET 500 2.386 ms 2048 kB 419.11% / \[access\]
78.247.136.119 - - \[14/Aug/2020:10:52:27 +0000\] \"GET / HTTP/1.1\" 500
843 \"-\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_6)
AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/84.0.4147.125
Safari/537.36\" \`\`\` If the error occurs on a preview environment, or
on the main environment of a non-production project, you can also enable
Symfony\'s dev/debug mode to inspect the cause of the error: \`\`\`bash
\# Enable debug mode symfony env:debug \# Disable debug mode symfony
env:debug \--off \`\`\` \### The server returned a \"404 Not Found\" By
default, new Symfony apps come without controllers, which means there\'s
no homepage to show. As a result, when you run your project locally, the
following welcome page is displayed: \![The default Symfony welcome page
in development mode\](/images/symfony/new-symfony-welcome-page.png
\"0.45\") But when you run your project on Upsun, the following error is
displayed instead: \![A 404 error page in production
mode\](/images/symfony/production-error-404.png \"0.35\") This is
because Upsun runs in production mode, leading Symfony to show a generic
404 error. To fix this issue, \[create your first Symfony
page\](https://symfony.com/doc/current/page_creation.html). If you\'ve
already created a custom homepage, make sure you perform the following
actions: 1. Commit all your files. 2. Run the \`symfony deploy\` command
and check that the deployment is successful. \## Other issues For other
issues unrelated to Symfony, see \[Troubleshoot
development\](/development/troubleshoot.html).

Back

Symfony CLI tips

#Symfony CLI Tips The \[Symfony CLI\](https://symfony.com/download)
allows you to interact with your project from the command line. It wraps
the \[Upsun CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md) with added features
related to Symfony. So when using Symfony, you can replace \`upsun \` by
\`symfony upsun:\` in all of your commands. \## Useful Symfony CLI
commands - Open the web administration console: \`\`\`bash symfony
upsun:web \`\`\` - Open the URL of the current environment: \`\`\`bash
symfony upsun:url \`\`\` - Open an SSH connection to your environment:
\`\`\`bash symfony upsun:ssh \`\`\` - Configure a project for Upsun:
\`\`\`bash symfony project:init \--upsun \`\`\` - Get a list of all the
domains: \`\`\`bash symfony upsun:domains \`\`\` - Create a new
environment: \`\`\`bash symfony upsun:branch new-branch \`\`\` - Get a
list of all the environments: \`\`\`bash symfony upsun:environments
\`\`\` - Push code to the current environment: \`\`\`bash symfony
upsun:push \`\`\` - Get a list of all the active projects: \`\`\`bash
symfony upsun:projects \`\`\` - Add a user to the project: \`\`\`bash
symfony upsun:user:add \`\`\` - List variables: \`\`\`bash symfony
upsun:variables \`\`\` \### Useful commands when using Symfony with a
database - Create a local dump of the remote database: \`\`\`bash
symfony upsun:db:dump \--relationship database \`\`\` - Run an SQL query
on the remote database: \`\`\`bash symfony upsun:sql \'SHOW TABLES\'
\`\`\` - Import a local SQL file into a remote database: \`\`\`bash
symfony upsun:sql \< my_database_backup.sql \`\`\`

Back \| \*\*Language\*\* \| \*\*\`runtime\`\*\* \| \*\*Supported
\`version\`\*\* \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \[C#/.Net Core\](/languages/dotnet.html) \| \`dotnet\` \| 7.0, 6.0,
8.0 \| \| \[Elixir\](/languages/elixir.html) \| \`elixir\` \| 1.15, 1.14
\| \| \[Go\](/languages/go.html) \| \`golang\` \| 1.23, 1.22, 1.21, 1.20
\| \| \[Java\](/languages/java.html) \| \`java\` \| 21, 19, 18, 17, 11,
8 \| \| \[Lisp\](/languages/lisp.html) \| \`lisp\` \| 2.1, 2.0, 1.5 \|
\| \[JavaScript/Node.js\](/languages/nodejs.html) \| \`nodejs\` \| 22,
20, 18, 16 \| \| \[PHP\](/languages/php.html) \| \`php\` \| 8.4, 8.3,
8.2, 8.1 \| \| \[Python\](/languages/python.html) \| \`python\` \| 3.12,
3.11, 3.10, 3.9, 3.8 \| \| \[Ruby\](/languages/ruby.html) \| \`ruby\` \|
3.3, 3.2, 3.1, 3.0 \| \| \[Rust\](/languages/rust.html) \| \`rust\` \| 1
\|\| \*\*Service\*\* \| \*\*\`type\`\*\* \| \*\*Supported
\`version\`\*\* \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \[Headless Chrome\](/add-services/headless-chrome.html) \|
\`chrome-headless\` \| 120, 113, 95, 91, 86, 84, 83, 81, 80, 73 \| \|
\[Elasticsearch\](/add-services/elasticsearch.html) \| \`elasticsearch\`
\| 8.5, 7.17 \| \| \[InfluxDB\](/add-services/influxdb.html) \|
\`influxdb\` \| 2.7, 2.3 \| \| \[Kafka\](/add-services/kafka.html) \|
\`kafka\` \| 3.7, 3.6, 3.4, 3.2 \| \|
\[MariaDB/MySQL\](/add-services/mysql.html) \| \`mariadb\` \| 11.4,
11.2, 11.0, 10.11, 10.6, 10.5, 10.4 \| \|
\[Memcached\](/add-services/memcached.html) \| \`memcached\` \| 1.6,
1.5, 1.4 \| \| \[MongoDB\](/add-services/mongodb.html) \| \`mongodb\` \|
\| \| \[MongoDB\](/add-services/mongodb.html) \| \`mongodb-enterprise\`
\| 7.0, 6.0, 5.0, 4.4 \| \| \[Network
Storage\](/add-services/network-storage.html) \| \`network-storage\` \|
2.0 \| \| \[OpenSearch\](/add-services/opensearch.html) \|
\`opensearch\` \| 2, 1 \| \| \[Oracle MySQL\](/add-services/mysql.html)
\| \`oracle-mysql\` \| 8.0, 5.7 \| \|
\[PostgreSQL\](/add-services/postgresql.html) \| \`postgresql\` \| 16,
15, 14, 13, 12 \| \| \[RabbitMQ\](/add-services/rabbitmq.html) \|
\`rabbitmq\` \| 3.13, 3.12 \| \| \[Redis\](/add-services/redis.html) \|
\`redis\` \| 7.2, 7.0, 6.2 \| \| \[Solr\](/add-services/solr.html) \|
\`solr\` \| 9.6, 9.4, 9.2, 9.1, 8.11 \| \|
\[Varnish\](/add-services/varnish.html) \| \`varnish\` \| 7.3, 7.2, 6.0
\| \| \[Vault KMS\](/add-services/vault.html) \| \`vault-kms\` \| 1.12
\| #{{% vendor/name %}} WAF The Upsun WAF monitors requests to your app
and blocks suspicious ones. All traffic to Upsun endpoints is also
filtered using a system that takes into account traffic patterns and
abuse scores. \## CRLF injection prevention Carriage return and line
feed (CRLF) injection occurs when an attacker injects a CRLF character
sequence to manipulate HTTP requests. CRLF injection can lead to
\[request smuggling\](#request-smuggling), \[header
injection\](#header-injection), and \[response
splitting\](#response-splitting) attacks. To protect your app from such
attacks, the WAF detects and blocks requests containing CRLF character
sequences. \### Request smuggling When a frontend server forwards HTTP
requests to a backend server, it usually sends a series of requests at
once. The backend server then parses the request headers to determine
where one request ends and the next one begins. The \[HTTP
protocol\](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616) provides two different
headers to specify where an HTTP request ends: \`Content-Length\` and
\`Transfer-Encoding\`. When the frontend and backend servers don't agree
on which header they should interpret as the end of a request, attackers
can smuggle requests. If a malicious request is injected, the backend
server may misinterpret the boundaries of the individual requests within
the concatenated request, thereby processing a request differently from
what was intended. This can lead to various security risks such as data
leakage, privilege escalation, and even remote code execution. The WAF
detects and blocks requests that contain \[both the \`Content-Length\`
and \`Transfer-Encoding\`
headers\](#content-length-and-transfer-encoding-headers-together). It
also detects and blocks requests that include \*\*both\*\* of the
following features of an attempt to inject a malicious request: - A
\[CRLF character\](#crlf-injection-prevention) or \`http/\\d\` - An
\`HTTP\` or \`WEBDAV\` method name \### Header injection During a header
injection attack, the attacker tricks your app into inserting extra HTTP
headers into legitimate HTTP responses. These attacks can happen when
HTTP response headers are generated based on user input. Header
injection attacks can have various impacts, including cookie injection,
\[cross-origin resource
sharing\](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) header
injection, and bypassing your content security policy. Such attacks
enable \[response splitting\](#response-splitting), which in turn can
lead to \[cross-site
scripting\](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Cross-site_scripting),
web cache poisoning, and so on. The WAF detects header injection
attempts occurring through the payload and the header itself. By
\[blocking requests containing CRLF\](#crlf-injection-prevention)
character sequences, the WAF prevents malicious data from being returned
in a response header and interpreted by the client. \### Response
splitting When a user makes an HTTP request, the web server usually
returns a single HTTP response. But when an attacker succeeds in
\[injecting headers\](#header-injection), they can launch a \[response
splitting
attack\](https://www.cs.montana.edu/courses/csci476/topics/http_response_splitting.pdf).
During a response splitting attack, the attacker uses CRLF characters to
inject additional HTTP responses into legitimate user requests. This
enables further attacks such as \[cross-site
scripting\](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Cross-site_scripting),
web cache poisoning, browser cache poisoning, and cross-user attacks. As
the WAF \[blocks requests containing CRLF\](#crlf-injection-prevention)
character sequences, your app is protected from response splitting
attacks. \## HTTP protocol enforcement In addition to protecting your
site against \[CRLF injection-related\](#crlf-injection-prevention)
attacks, the WAF implements additional rules to enforce the HTTP
protocol. \### Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) syntax \[RFC
3986\](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986) defines the generic
syntax for URIs. When the WAF detects a URI with incorrect syntax, the
incoming connection is terminated. The request is then reconstructed on
the internal Upsun network, enforcing the valid format in transit. \###
File upload limit The WAF enforces a file upload limit. By default, this
limit is set at 250 MB. You can customize the file upload limit by
amending your \[app configuration\](/create-apps/\_index.md). In the
\[\`web.locations\`
dictionary\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#locations),
add your desired value for the \`max_request_size\` property. \### File
extension restriction The WAF enforces any file extension restriction
you may have defined in your \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md). To set up a file
extension restriction, adjust the \[\`web.locations\`
dictionary\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#locations).
Set up
\[rules\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#rules) to
allow only certain file extensions on a given path. \### Disallowed
requests and headers \#### \`GET\` requests with a body The \[HTTP
specification\](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616) allows for \`GET\`
requests to have a body. This enables attackers to try and force a
request body on unsuspecting applications, which could result in a
\[request smuggling attack\](#request-smuggling). To prevent such
attacks, when the WAF detects a \`GET\` request, it scans the request
for a potential \`Content-Length\` or \`Transfer-Encoding\` header. If
one of those headers is found and the payload isn\'t \`0\` or empty, all
body-related headers are removed from the request. The request is then
passed through otherwise unaltered. \#### \`Content-Length\` and
\`Transfer-Encoding\` headers together According to the \[HTTP
specification\](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616), requests mustn\'t
contain \[both a \`Content-Length\` and a \`Transfer-Encoding\`
header\](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-3.3.2). This rule
helps protect apps from \[request smuggling\](#request-smuggling). The
WAF detects and blocks requests featuring both headers and forces
requests to use \[chunked transfer
encoding\](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Transfer-Encoding)
only on the internal Upsun network. \#### Missing or empty \`host\`
headers As \[routes are mapped\](../../define-routes/\_index.md) based
on host names, the Upsun WAF blocks requests with an empty or absent
\`host\` header. \#### Other restricted HTTP headers The following
headers are disallowed: \`Connection\`, \`Proxy-Authorization\`, \`TE\`,
and \`Upgrade\`. \## Slowloris DDoS attack prevention Slowloris DDoS
attacks use partial HTTP requests to open connections between a single
computer and a targeted web server. These connections are then kept open
for as long as possible to overwhelm the web server. While Apache web
servers are vulnerable to Slowloris attacks, Nginx servers aren\'t.
Since Upsun router services use Nginx processes, your projects are
protected against such attacks. #Authenticate with SSH keys To connect
to your app using SSH keys, you need two keys: \* A \*\*private key\*\*
you must keep \_secret\_ \* A \*\*public key\*\* stored in your Upsun
account A given SSH key pair can only be linked to a single user
account. A key pair is valid for as long as you have access to the
private key on the system from which you are connecting. If you have a
key pair available, you aren\'t prompted to login. To keep connection
secure, you need to regularly update the keys you use. A well-encrypted
key is no substitute for regular key rotation. If you used GitHub to
sign up for your Upsun account your public keys from GitHub are
automatically synced to your Upsun account. So you can use them already
with the CLI or to \[connect to your
app\](./\_index.md#2-connect-to-an-app-with-ssh). \## Add SSH keys If
you don\'t have keys already added, you might be able to \[find existing
keys\](#1a-find-your-keys) or else you need to \[generate new
keys\](#1b-generate-new-keys). \### 1A. Find your keys If you haven\'t
used SSH keys before or it\'s been a while since you created the key,
skip right to \[generating new keys\](#1b-generate-new-keys). If you
have generated SSH keys before and want to find them on your system,
follow these instructions. A public key file has a name ending in
\`.pub\`. It contains seemingly random lines of characters, like this
example of a public \[RSA
key\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSA\_%28cryptosystem%29) (note the
email address at the end, which wouldn\'t be present in a private key):
\`\`\`text ssh-rsa
AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQC2nDRLgPANWParTiaGIgySG+thTtnqFGI1tMWyqDdfvH+5hL91w2tK9PzaP+NJ5hA/cOyh30YRFb52Y64toU16Ko5K1mLqNFJajjWEI5Y4VukG6betrWfqdQ7XBr/s7nBuDOFQ5+eKbvug4rRSCSo8CsEI1eI0VNQkC9HJWYK28k7KurMdTN7X/Z/4vknM4/Rm2bnMk2idoORQgomeZS1p3GkG8dQs/c0j/b4H7azxnqdcCaR4ahbytX3d49BN0WwE84C+ItsnkCt1g5tVADPrab+Ywsm/FTnGY3cJKKdOAHt7Ls5lfpyyug2hNAFeiZF0MoCekjDZ2GH2xdFc7AX/
your_email_address@example.com \`\`\` To find your public key file: 1.
Open a terminal. 2. Run the following commands: \`\`\`bash cd \~/.ssh ls
-a \`\`\` If you find a file ending in \`.pub\`, copy the location and
\[add it to your Upsun account\](#2-add-an-ssh-key-to-your-account). If
you don\'t find an existing key, \[generate new
keys\](#1b-generate-new-keys). \### 1B. Generate new keys If you\'re
logged in using the \[Upsun
CLI\](./\_index.md#1-authenticate-with-the-cli), generate a key and have
it added to your Upsun account automatically. 1. In a terminal, run
\`upsun ssh-key:add\`. 1. If necessary, log in to a browser. 1. Press
\`Y\` and \`enter\` to create a new SSH key. 1. Copy the location of the
generated key. 1. Run the following commands (replacing
\`PATH_TO_YOUR_KEY\` with the location you copied): \`\`\`bash eval
\$(ssh-agent) ssh-add \'PATH_TO_YOUR_KEY\' \`\`\` To generate a key
otherwise, GitHub has a good \[walk-through for creating SSH key
pairs\](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent)
on various operating systems. Then you need to \[add it to your Upsun
account\](#2-add-an-ssh-key-to-your-account). \### 2. Add an SSH key to
your account Once you have the location of your public key, add it to
your Upsun account. If you\'re logged in using the \[Upsun
CLI\](./\_index.md#1-authenticate-with-the-cli), in a terminal run the
following command (replacing \`PATH_TO_YOUR_KEY\` with the location of
your public key): \`\`\`bash upsun ssh-key:add \'PATH_TO_YOUR_KEY\'
\`\`\`

You can also add it in the Console.

Now you are ready to use the key to \[connect to an
environment\](./\_index.md#2-connect-to-an-app-with-ssh). \### 3.
Connect to your server with SSH keys To connect to a server using SSH
keys, find the details in the Console: 1. Open the \[Upsun
Console\](https://console.platform.sh/). 1. Select a project. 1. In the
\*\*Environment\*\* dropdown, select the environment you want to
access. 1. Click the \*\*SSH\*\* dropdown. 1. Copy the ssh command for
where you want access. (Example: \`ssh
abcdefghi5k-main-7rqtwti\--app@ssh.us-2.upsun.com\`) 1. Enter the
command into a terminal. Note that if you have just added your SSH key,
you need to \[redeploy your
environment\](./troubleshoot-ssh.md#redeploy-your-environment) before
you can access it using SSH keys. \## Forwarding keys by default It may
be helpful to set your SSH client to always forward keys to Upsun
servers, which can simplify other SSH or rsync commands. To do so,
include a block in your local \`\~/.ssh/config\` file like so:
\`\`\`text Host \*.us.upsun.com ForwardAgent yes Host \*.eu.upsun.com
ForwardAgent yes \`\`\` Include one \`Host\` entry for each Upsun region
you want to connect to, such as \`us-2\` or \`eu-4\`. (You can include
other configuration as desired.) #Authenticated Composer repositories

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

\[Packagist\](https://packagist.org/) is the primary Composer repository
for public PHP packages. But you can also have Composer download PHP
packages from a private, third-party Composer repository. To make sure
Composer has the necessary credentials to do so, follow the instructions
on this page. \## Before you begin You need: - A Upsun project using
\[PHP\](../php/\_index.md) and Composer - Credentials to access a
private third-party Composer repository - The \[Upsun
CLI\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md) \## 1. Declare a private
Composer repository To allow Composer to download packages from a
private third-party repository, declare the repository in your Composer
setup. \`\`\`json {} { \"repositories\": \[ { \"type\": \"composer\",
\"url\": \"https://PRIVATE_REPOSITORY_URL\" } \] } \`\`\` \## 2. Set up
Composer authentication using a variable To allow Composer to
successfully authenticate when accessing the declared private
repository, set an \[\`env:COMPOSER_AUTH\`
variable\](../../development/variables/\_index.md) for your project. To
do so, run the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun variable:create
\--level project \--name env:COMPOSER_AUTH \\ \--json true
\--visible-runtime false \--sensitive true \--visible-build true \\
\--value \'{\"http-basic\": {\"PRIVATE_REPOSITORY_URL\": {\"username\":
\"USERNAME\", \"password\": \"PASSWORD\"}}}\' \`\`\` The \[\`env:\`
prefix\](../../development/variables/\_index.md#top-level-environment-variables)
means that the variable is exposed as its own Unix environment variable.
The \`\--visible-runtime false\` and \`\--visible-build true\` flags
mean the variable is available to Composer only during the build. \## 3.
Clear your project\'s build cache For security reasons, make sure that
the authentication credentials aren\'t cached in your project\'s build
container. To do so, run the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun
project:clear-build-cache \`\`\` \## Access dependencies downloaded from
a private repository When you download a dependency from a private
third-party Composer repository, that dependency is usually hosted in a
\[private Git repository\](../../development/private-repository.md).
Access to private Git repositories is restricted through the use of SSH
keys. But most private Composer tools mirror tagged releases of
dependencies and serve them directly without hitting the Git repository.
To avoid having to authenticate against a remote Git repository, make
sure your dependencies specify tagged releases. #C#/.NET Core

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

Upsun supports deploying .NET applications by allowing developers to
define a build process and pass its variables to the .NET Core build
environment. \## Supported versions You can select the major and minor
version. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and the
like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest available
patches.

-   7.0
-   6.0
-   8.0

\### Specify the language To use .Net Core, specify \`dotnet\` as your
\[app\'s
\`type\`\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#types):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique
within the project. : type: \'dotnet:\' \`\`\` For example: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the
project. myapp: type: \'dotnet:8.0\' \`\`\` \## Building the application
To build basic applications in .NET containers, it\'s enough to use the
\[\`dotnet publish\`
command\](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-publish)
with the default \[framework-dependent
deployment\](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/deploying/#publish-framework-dependent):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: \'dotnet:8.0\' hooks: build: \|
set -xe dotnet publish \--output \"\$PLATFORM_OUTPUT_DIR\" \\
-p:UseRazorBuildServer=false \\ -p:UseSharedCompilation=false \`\`\`
where \`PLATFORM_OUTPUT_DIR\` is the output directory for compiled
languages available at build time. Typically, .NET Core builds start a
collection of build servers, which are helpful for repeated builds. On
Upsun, however, if this process isn\'t disabled, the build process
doesn\'t finish until the idle timeout is reached. As a result, you
should include \`-p\` toggles that disable the Razor compiler for
dynamic CSHTML pages (\`UseRazorBuildServer\`) and the .NET MSBuild
compiler (\`UseSharedCompilation\`). If you want multiple builds for
your application, make sure to call \`dotnet build-server shutdown\` at
the end of your build hook. \## Running the application .NET Core
applications should be started using the \`web.commands.start\`
directive in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`. This ensures that the command
starts at the right moment and stops gracefully when a redeployment
needs to be executed. Also, should the program terminate for any reason,
it\'s automatically restarted. Note that the start command \_must\_ run
in the foreground. Incoming requests are passed to the application using
either a TCP (default) or Unix socket. The application must use the
\[appropriate environment
variable\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#where-to-listen)
to determine the URI to listen on. For a TCP socket
(\[recommended\](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=874850)), the
application must listen on \`http://127.0.0.1\`, using the \`PORT\`
environment variable. There is an Nginx server sitting in front of your
application. Serving static content via Nginx is recommended, as this
allows you to control headers (including cache headers) and also has
marginal performance benefits. Note that HTTPS is also terminated at the
Nginx proxy, so the \`app.UseHttpsRedirection();\` line in
\`Startup.cs\` should be removed. To force HTTPS-only, refer to the
\[routes documentation\](../define-routes/https.md#enable-https). The
following example configures an environment to serve the static content
folders commonly found in \[ASP.NET
MVC\](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/aspnet/mvc) templates using
Nginx, while routing other traffic to the .NET application. \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: myapp: type: \'dotnet:8.0\' web: locations: \"/\":
root: \"wwwroot\" allow: true passthru: true rules: \# Serve these
common asset types with customs cache headers.
\\.(jpe?g\|png\|gif\|svgz?\|css\|js\|map\|ico\|bmp\|eot\|woff2?\|otf\|ttf)\$:
allow: true expires: 300s commands: start: \"dotnet
WebApplication1.dll\" \`\`\` You can also route all requests to the
application unconditionally: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type:
\'dotnet:8.0\' web: locations: \"/\": allow: false passthru: true
commands: start: \"dotnet WebApplication1.dll\" \`\`\` #Cancel an
activity If you have a stuck activity or you pushed a change you know
doesn\'t work, you can cancel a running or pending activity on an
environment. This works for activities such as builds, cron jobs, and
source operations. You can cancel activities using the
\[CLI\](../administration/cli/\_index.md) or in the
\[Console\](../administration/web/\_index.md).

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following command:

`upsun activity:cancel`

If you have more than one running or pending activity, choose which
activity to cancel.

You can also cancel a specific activity by specifying its ID:

`upsun activity:cancel ACTIVITY_ID`

Get the ID from the [activity
log](/increase-observability/logs/access-logs.html#activity-logs).

1.  Open the environment where you want to cancel an activity.
2.  In the [activity
    log](/increase-observability/logs/access-logs.html#activity-logs),
    click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDYuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDYuNSAxMy41IDUuODI4NDMgMTMuNSA1QzEzLjUgNC4xNzE1NyAxMi44Mjg0IDMuNSAxMiAzLjVDMTEuMTcxNiAzLjUgMTAuNSA0LjE3MTU3IDEwLjUgNUMxMC41IDUuODI4NDMgMTEuMTcxNiA2LjUgMTIgNi41WiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTIgMTMuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTMuNSAxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTJDMTMuNSAxMS4xNzE2IDEyLjgyODQgMTAuNSAxMiAxMC41QzExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMC41IDExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMkMxMC41IDEyLjgyODQgMTEuMTcxNiAxMy41IDEyIDEzLjVaIiAvPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    **More** next to the activity you want to cancel.
3.  Click **Cancel**.

\## Non-cancellable activities An activity can finish in between when
you load the Console and when you click \*\*Cancel\*\*. For example,
when the activity is a \[source
operation\](../create-apps/source-operations.md) and the related build
hook has already completed. In such cases, you get a message that the
activity can\'t be cancelled. #Change a project\'s region To host your
project data, Upsun offers several
\[regions\](../development/regions.md). You specify a region when you
create a project. You can also change the project\'s region after it\'s
created. \## Why migrate between regions - Different data centers are
located in different geographic areas. You may want your site close to
your users for improved performance. - You may want to move to a region
with a lower \[environmental
impact\](../development/regions.md#environmental-impact). \## 1. Plan
the migration Before starting the migration process, you need to plan
for it: - Plan a time frame in which to handle the migration. Your code
shouldn\'t change during this time to ensure all changes are copied to
the new project. Prepare for a brief site outage when you migrate, just
as with a relaunch of a site. - Set your DNS Time-to-Live as low as
possible. This ensures the switch to the new site propagates as quickly
as possible. \## 2. Create a new project In the target region, \[create
a new project from scratch\](
https://console.upsun.com/org/create-project/info?\_utm_campaign=cta_deploy_marketplace_template&utm_source=public_documentation&\_utm_medium=organic
). If you plan to test for long, start with the least amount of
resources on the project and then upsize it before switching the DNS.
\## 3. Add code and environments

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Without a source integration
-   With a source integration

1.  Clone your existing project with Git.

2.  In the new clone, add a remote for the project:

    `upsun project:set-remote`

    Select your newly created blank project.

3.  Push the code for your production branch:

    `upsun push --target PRODUCTION_BRANCH_NAME`

4.  (Optional) Checkout other branches and then push their code:

    `upsun push --activate --target BRANCH_NAME --parent PRODUCTION_BRANCH_NAME`

For a source integration with GitHub, BitBucket, or GitLab, add the
integration to your new project. Your new project then mirrors the
configured repository automatically. \## 4. Copy files If you have files
in a mount, first download them: \`\`\`bash upsun mount:download \`\`\`
Then upload them to your new project: \`\`\`bash upsun mount:upload
\`\`\` See more options on \[how to export
files\](/learn/tutorials/exporting.md) and \[how to import
files\](/learn/tutorials/migrating/from-psh.md#6-import-data). \## 5.
Copy data from services For services with generated data such as Solr
and Redis, you don\'t need to copy data directly. Just rebuild the data
in the new project. To download data from persistent services such as
databases, see how to export and then import data for each service: -
\[InfluxDB\](../add-services/influxdb.md#export-data) -
\[MongoDB\](../add-services/mongodb.md#exporting-data) -
\[MariaDB/MySQL\](../add-services/mysql/\_index.md#exporting-data) -
\[PostgreSQL\](../add-services/postgresql.md#exporting-data) \## 6.
Migrate variables and project settings Make sure anything else connected
to your old project is moved to your new project: - If you have project
or environment variables defined on your old project, add them to your
new project. Get a list of all variables set outside of code by running
\`upsun variables\`. - Add any users to your new project that you want
to continue to have access. - Add any existing
\[integrations\](../integrations/\_index.md). \## 7. Test the site
Verify that the new site is working as desired before continuing. You
can leave the two projects running for as long as you need. After you
have finished all your testing, sync all your data (code, files,
database) for the last time. \## 8. Switch to the new site Now that you
know the new project works, switch public traffic to that site: 1. Make
sure your new project has the right plan size. 2. If possible, put your
site into read-only mode or maintenance mode. 3. Add your domain names
to your new project and remove them from the old project. 4. (Optional)
Add any custom SSL certificates you have. 5. Update your DNS provider\'s
records to point to the new site. See more on \[setting custom
domains\](../domains/steps/\_index.md). It may take some time for the
DNS change and SSL change to propagate. Until it does, some browsers may
not see the new site or may get an SSL mismatch error. In most cases
that resolves itself in 1\--3 hours. \## 9. Remove the old project Once
the new project is running and the DNS has fully propagated, delete the
old project. \## Alternative process Although not directly supported by
Upsun, an agency named \[Contextual
Code\](https://www.contextualcode.com/) has built a bash migration
script. This script automates most common configurations. If your site
is a typical single app with a single SQL database, the script should
take care of most of the process for you. See more at the \[Upsun
Project Migration
repository\](https://gitlab.com/contextualcode/platformsh-migration).
#Change an environment\'s parent All environments default to having
another environment as their parent. If you
\[branched\](/glossary.md#branch) the environment from another, its
parent starts as the environment it was created from. If you pushed a
branch through Git or a \[source
integration\](../integrations/source/\_index.md), the parent defaults to
the default environment. To change the environment\'s parent, follow
these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

<!-- -->

-   Select the project where you want to change the parent.
-   From the **Environment** menu, select the environment you want to
    change.
-   Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
-   In the row with the environment's name, click **Edit
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+Q2hldnJvbiBJY29uPC90aXRsZT4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTYuOTAwMDIgOS44OTk5QzYuOTAwMDIgOS41OTk5IDcuMDAwMDIgOS4zOTk5IDcuMjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5QzcuNjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguMjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguNjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5TDEyLjEgMTIuNjk5OUwxNS42IDkuMTk5OUMxNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTYuNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTcgOS4xOTk5QzE3LjQgOS41OTk5IDE3LjQgMTAuMTk5OSAxNyAxMC41OTk5TDEyLjggMTQuNzk5OUMxMi40IDE1LjE5OTkgMTEuOCAxNS4xOTk5IDExLjQgMTQuNzk5OUw3LjIwMDAyIDEwLjU5OTlDNy4wMDAwMiAxMC4zOTk5IDYuOTAwMDIgMTAuMTk5OSA2LjkwMDAyIDkuODk5OVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)**.
-   Select a **Parent environment**.
-   Click **Save**.

Run the following command:

`upsun environment:info -e <CHILD_ENVIRONMENT_NAME> parent <PARENT_ENVIRONMENT_NAME>`

So if you have the environment `new-feature` and want to change its
parent to `main`, run the following:

`upsun environment:info -e new-feature parent main` If you\'re not using
a \[source integration\](/integrations/source/\_index.md), you can also
set a parent for your environment when pushing changes to it. To do so,
run the following command: \`\`\`bash git push -o
\"environment.parent=PARENT_ENVIRONMENT_NAME\" \`\`\` Learn more about
how to \[trigger actions on
\`push\`\](/environments/\_index.md#push-options). #Change hooks in
different environments You might have certain commands you want to run
only in certain environments. For example enabling detailed logging in
preview environments or purging your CDN cache for production
environments. The \`deploy\` and \`post_deploy\` hooks can access all
\[runtime environment
variables\](../../development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
Use this to vary those hooks based on the environment. Check the
\`PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\` variable to see if it\'s in a production
environment: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: hooks: deploy: \| if \[
\"\$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\" = production \]; then \# Run commands
only when deploying to production else \# Run commands only when
deploying to development or staging environments fi \# Commands to run
regardless of the environment \`\`\` #Change the project timezone The
project timezone affects \[automated
backups\](../environments/backup.md). The project timezone doesn\'t
affect: - \[App runtime\](/create-apps/timezone.md). - \[Cron
jobs\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#crons). -
\[System logs\](/increase-observability/logs/\_index.md). UTC is the
default timezone for all logs. To change the timezone for a project,
follow these steps: 1. Open the project where you want to change the
timezone. 2. Click
![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
\*\*Settings\*\*. 3. Select the timezone from the list. 4. Click
\*\*Save\*\*. #Comparison of hooks The following table presents the main
differences among the three available hooks: \| Hook name \| Failures
stop build \| Variables available \| Services available \| Timeout \|
Run on \`worker\` instances \| Writable directories \| Blocks requests
\| Runs on all redeploys\\\* \| \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| \`build\` \| Yes \| Build
variables \| No \| 1 hour \| Yes \| \`\$PLATFORM_APP_DIR\`,
\`\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR\`, and \`/tmp\` \| No \| No \| \| \`deploy\` \|
No \| Runtime variables \| Yes \| None \| No \|
\[Mounts\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts) \|
Yes \| No \| \| \`post_deploy\` \| No \| Runtime variables \| Yes \|
None \| No \|
\[Mounts\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts) \|
No \| Yes \| \\\* All of the hooks run with changes to the code or
environment. This column indicates which hooks run on a redeploy without
any code changes. \## Build hook The \`build\` hook is run after any
\[build
flavor\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#build).
During this hook, no services (such as a database) or any persistent
file mounts are available as the application hasn\'t yet been deployed.
The \`build\` hook can only use \[environment
variables\](../../development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables)
that are available at build time. During the \`build\` hook, there are
three writeable directories: - \`\$PLATFORM_APP_DIR\`: This is where
your code is checked out and is the working directory when the \`build\`
hook starts. The contents of this directory after the build hook is the
application that gets deployed. - \`\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR\`: This
directory persists between builds, but isn\'t deployed as part of your
application. It\'s a good place for temporary build artifacts that can
be reused between builds. It\'s shared by all builds on all branches. -
\`/tmp\`: The temp directory is also useful for writing files that
aren\'t needed in the final application, but it\'s wiped between each
build. Note that \`\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR\` is mapped to \`/tmp\` and
together they offer about 8GB of free space. The only constraint on what
can be downloaded during a \`build\` hook is the disk space available
for builds. This is \_not\_ the disk specified by your \[resources
configuration\](/manage-resources.md). If you exceed this limit, you
receive a \`No space left on device\` error. See how to \[troubleshoot
this error\](../troubleshoot-disks.md#no-space-left-on-device). The
\`build\` hook runs only when the app or its runtime (variables and
such) have changed. Redeploys with no changes trigger only the
\`post_deploy\` hook. If you need the \`build\` hook to run, \[manually
trigger a
build\](../../development/troubleshoot.md#manually-trigger-builds). Each
hook is executed as a single script, so they\'re considered to have
failed only if the final command in them fails. To cause them to fail on
the first failed command, add \`set -e\` to the beginning of the hook.
If a \`build\` hook fails for any reason, the build is aborted and the
deploy doesn\'t happen. Note that this only works for \`build\` hooks.
If other hooks fail, the deploy still happens. \### Timeout Build hooks
automatically time out if they run for 1 hour. So if you accidentally
add an unbroken loop, it gets cut off and you can continue with other
activities. \## Deploy hook The \`deploy\` hook is run after the app
container has been started but before it has started accepting requests.
Note that the deploy hook only runs on \[\`web\`
instances\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#web), not
\[\`worker\`
instances\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#workers).
You can access other services at this stage (such as MySQL, Solr,
Redis). The disk where the application lives is read-only at this point.
This hook should be used when something needs to run once when new code
is deployed. It isn\'t run when a host is restarted (such as during
region maintenance), so anything that needs to run each time an instance
of an app starts (regardless of whether there\'s new code) should go in
the \`pre_start\` key in \[your \`web\`
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#web-commands).
For example, clearing the cache. Be aware: The deploy hook blocks the
site accepting new requests. If your \`deploy\` hook is only a few
seconds, incoming requests in that time are paused and continue when the
hook is finished. So it effectively appears as if the site just took a
few extra seconds to respond. If the hook takes too long, requests
can\'t be held and appear as dropped connections. Only run tasks in your
deploy hook that have to be run exclusively, such as database schema
updates or some types of cache clear (those where the code must match
what\'s on the disk). A task that can safely run concurrently with new
incoming requests should be run as a \`post_deploy\` hook instead. After
a Git push, in addition to the log shown in the activity log, the
execution of the \`deploy\` hook is logged in the \[deploy
log\](../../increase-observability/logs/access-logs.md#container-logs).
For example: \`\`\`bash \[2022-03-01 08:27:25.495579\] Launching command
\'bash export-config.sh\'. 🔥 Successfully cleared configuration 🚀
Added new configuration details \`\`\` Your \`deploy\` hook is tied to
commits in the same way as your builds. Once a commit has been pushed
and a new build image has been created, the result of both the \`build\`
and \`deploy\` hooks are reused until there is a new git commit.
Redeploys with no changes trigger only the \`post_deploy\` hook. If you
need the \`deploy\` hook to run, \[manually trigger a
build\](../../development/troubleshoot.md#manually-trigger-builds). \##
Post-deploy hook The \`post_deploy\` hook functions exactly the same as
the \`deploy\` hook, but after the container is accepting connections.
It runs concurrently with normal incoming traffic. That makes it well
suited to any updates that don\'t require exclusive database access.
What\'s \"safe\" to run in a \`post_deploy\` hook vs. in a \`deploy\`
hook varies by the application. Often times content imports, some types
of cache warmups, and other such tasks are good candidates for a
\`post_deploy\` hook. In addition to the activity log, the
\`post_deploy\` hook logs to the \[post-deploy
log\](../../increase-observability/logs/access-logs.md#container-logs).
The \`post_deploy\` hook is the only hook that runs during a redeploy.
#Configure HTTP access control When developing your site, you might want
to hide your preview environments from outside viewers. Or you may find
you have performance issues from \[excessive bot
access\](https://community.platform.sh/t/diagnosing-and-resolving-issues-with-excessive-bot-access/792).
You can control access with a username and password \*\*or\*\* by
allowing/denying specific IP addresses or networks. This setting applies
to the entire environment. The settings for a specific environment are
inherited by all of its children. So if you have a \`staging\`
environment and you \[branch environments from
it\](/glossary.md#branch), all of the environments branched from it
inherit the same authentication information. Changing access control
triggers a new deploy of the current environment. The changes don\'t
propagate to child environments until they\'re \[redeployed
manually\](../development/troubleshoot.md#force-a-redeploy). \## Use a
username and password You can set up one or more combinations of a
username and password. To add a username and password, follow these
steps:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

<!-- -->

-   Select the project where you want to add login details.
-   From the **Environment** menu, select an environment.
-   Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
-   In the row with **HTTP access control**, click **Edit
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+Q2hldnJvbiBJY29uPC90aXRsZT4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTYuOTAwMDIgOS44OTk5QzYuOTAwMDIgOS41OTk5IDcuMDAwMDIgOS4zOTk5IDcuMjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5QzcuNjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguMjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguNjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5TDEyLjEgMTIuNjk5OUwxNS42IDkuMTk5OUMxNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTYuNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTcgOS4xOTk5QzE3LjQgOS41OTk5IDE3LjQgMTAuMTk5OSAxNyAxMC41OTk5TDEyLjggMTQuNzk5OUMxMi40IDE1LjE5OTkgMTEuOCAxNS4xOTk5IDExLjQgMTQuNzk5OUw3LjIwMDAyIDEwLjU5OTlDNy4wMDAwMiAxMC4zOTk5IDYuOTAwMDIgMTAuMTk5OSA2LjkwMDAyIDkuODk5OVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)**.
-   Click **+ Add Login**.
-   Enter the username (login) and password into the given fields.
-   Click **Save**.

Run the following command:

`upsun environment:http-access -e ENVIRONMENT_NAME --auth USERNAME:PASSWORD`

For example, to add the username `name` with the password `12321` to the
`test` environment, run:

`upsun environment:http-access -e test --auth name:12321` \## Filter IP
addresses Alternatively, you can control access to environments by
allowing or denying specific IP addresses or ranges of IP addresses. The
addresses should be in the \[CIDR
format\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing).
Both\`4.5.6.7\` and \`4.5.6.0/8\` are accepted formats. Note that
\`allow\` entries should come before \`deny\` entries in case they both
match. For example, the following configuration allows only the IP
\`198.51.100.0\` to access your website. \`\`\`txt 198.51.100.0 allow
0.0.0.0/0 deny \`\`\`

### Pick your authentication method

When you set up IP filtering authentication, make sure no [username and
password are defined](#use-a-username-and-password) for your
environment.

Otherwise, your environment will remain accessible through the defined
username and password combination, regardless of your IP filtering
settings.

To control access based on IP address, follow these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

<!-- -->

-   Select the project where you want to control access.
-   From the **Environment** menu, select the environment to control.
-   Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+U2V0dGluZ3M8L3RpdGxlPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTAuNTI4OSAyMS45NDE2QzkuODYwNjYgMjEuODU4MiA5LjM1OTUgMjEuMzU3NiA5LjE5MjQ1IDIwLjY5MDNMOS4wMjUzOSAxOS42ODkyQzguODU4MzQgMTkuNjA1OCA4Ljc3NDgyIDE5LjYwNTggOC42MDc3NiAxOS41MjI0TDcuOTM5NTUgMjAuMDIyOUM3LjQzODM5IDIwLjQ0IDYuNjg2NjUgMjAuNDQgNi4xMDE5NiAyMC4wMjI5QzYuMTAxOTYgMjAuMDIyOSA0LjA5NzMyIDE4LjEwNDIgNC4wMTM3OSAxNy45Mzc0QzMuNTEyNjMgMTcuMzUzNSAzLjUxMjYzIDE2LjYwMjcgMy45MzAyNyAxNi4wMTg3TDQuNTE0OTUgMTUuMzUxNEM0LjQzMTQzIDE1LjE4NDUgNC40MzE0MyAxNS4xMDExIDQuMzQ3OSAxNC45MzQzTDMuNDI5MTEgMTQuNzY3NEMyLjc2MDg5IDE0LjY4NCAyLjI1OTczIDE0LjE4MzUgMi4wOTI2OCAxMy40MzI3QzIuMDA5MTUgMTMuMTgyNCAyLjA5MjY4IDEwLjQyOTYgMi4wOTI2OCAxMC40Mjk2QzIuMTc2MjEgOS43NjIyMiAyLjY3NzM3IDkuMjYxNyAzLjM0NTU4IDkuMDk0ODZMNC4zNDc5IDguOTI4MDJDNC40MzE0MyA4Ljg0NDYgNC40MzE0MyA4Ljc2MTE4IDQuNTE0OTUgOC41OTQzNEw0LjAxMzc5IDcuOTI2OTdDMy41OTYxNiA3LjQyNjQ1IDMuNTk2MTYgNi42NzU2NyA0LjAxMzc5IDYuMDkxNzNDNC4wMTM3OSA2LjA5MTczIDUuOTM0OTEgNC4wODk2NCA2LjEwMTk2IDQuMDA2MjJDNi42ODY2NSAzLjUwNTcgNy40MzgzOSAzLjUwNTcgOC4wMjMwNyAzLjkyMjhMOC42OTEyOSA0LjUwNjc1QzguODU4MzQgNC40MjMzMyA4Ljk0MTg3IDQuNDIzMzMgOS4xMDg5MiA0LjMzOTkxTDkuMjc1OTcgMy40MjIyOEM5LjM1OTUgMi43NTQ5MiA5Ljg2MDY2IDIuMjU0NCAxMC42MTI0IDIuMDg3NTZDMTAuODYzIDIuMDA0MTQgMTMuMjg1MyAyLjAwNDE0IDEzLjUzNTggMi4wODc1NkgxMy42MTk0QzE0LjI4NzYgMi4xNzA5OCAxNC43ODg3IDIuNjcxNSAxNC45NTU4IDMuMzM4ODZMMTUuMTIyOCA0LjMzOTkxQzE1LjIwNjQgNC40MjMzMyAxNS4yODk5IDQuNTA2NzUgMTUuNDU3IDQuNTA2NzVMMTYuMTI1MiA0LjAwNjIyQzE2LjYyNjMgMy41ODkxMiAxNy4zNzgxIDMuNTg5MTIgMTcuOTYyOCA0LjAwNjIyQzE3Ljk2MjggNC4wMDYyMiAxOS45Njc0IDUuOTI0ODkgMjAuMDUwOSA2LjA5MTczQzIwLjU1MjEgNi42NzU2NyAyMC41NTIxIDcuNDI2NDUgMjAuMTM0NCA4LjAxMDRMMTkuNjMzMyA4LjY3Nzc2QzE5LjcxNjggOC44NDQ2IDE5LjcxNjggOS4wMTE0NCAxOS44MDAzIDkuMDk0ODZMMjAuNzE5MSA5LjI2MTdDMjEuMzg3MyA5LjM0NTEyIDIxLjk3MiA5LjkyOTA2IDIyLjA1NTYgMTAuNTk2NFYxMy41OTk2QzIxLjk3MiAxNC4yNjY5IDIxLjQ3MDkgMTQuNzY3NCAyMC44MDI3IDE0LjkzNDNMMTkuODAwMyAxNS4xMDExQzE5LjcxNjggMTUuMjY4IDE5LjcxNjggMTUuMzUxNCAxOS42MzMzIDE1LjUxODJMMjAuMjE4IDE2LjI2OUMyMC42MzU2IDE2Ljc2OTUgMjAuNjM1NiAxNy41MjAzIDIwLjIxOCAxOC4xMDQyTDE4LjA0NjMgMjAuMjczMkMxNy40NjE2IDIwLjY5MDMgMTYuNzA5OSAyMC42OTAzIDE2LjIwODcgMjAuMjczMkwxNS4zNzM0IDE5LjYwNThDMTUuMjA2NCAxOS42ODkyIDE1LjEyMjggMTkuNjg5MiAxNC45NTU4IDE5Ljc3MjZMMTQuNzg4NyAyMC42OTAzQzE0LjcwNTIgMjEuMzU3NiAxNC4xMjA1IDIxLjk0MTYgMTMuNDUyMyAyMi4wMjVIMTAuNTI4OVYyMS45NDE2Wk0xMS41MzEyIDIwLjM1NjZDMTEuODY1MyAyMC4zNTY2IDEyLjE5OTQgMjAuMzU2NiAxMi40NSAyMC4zNTY2QzEyLjg2NzYgMjAuMzU2NiAxMy4yMDE3IDIwLjAyMjkgMTMuMjg1MyAxOS42MDU4TDEzLjM2ODggMTguOTM4NEMxMy4zNjg4IDE4LjY4ODIgMTMuNjE5NCAxOC40Mzc5IDEzLjg2OTkgMTguMjcxMUwxNS4xMjI4IDE3Ljc3MDZDMTUuMzczNCAxNy42ODcxIDE1LjcwNzUgMTcuNjg3MSAxNS45NTgxIDE3Ljg1NEwxNi41NDI4IDE4LjI3MTFDMTYuODc2OSAxOC41MjEzIDE3LjM3ODEgMTguNTIxMyAxNy42Mjg2IDE4LjE4NzdDMTcuNzk1NyAxOC4wMjA4IDE4LjA0NjMgMTcuNzcwNiAxOC4yOTY5IDE3LjUyMDNDMTguNTQ3NCAxNy4xODY2IDE4LjYzMSAxNi43Njk1IDE4LjM4MDQgMTYuNDM1OEwxNy44NzkyIDE2LjAxODdDMTcuNzEyMiAxNS43Njg1IDE3LjYyODYgMTUuNDM0OCAxNy43OTU3IDE1LjE4NDVMMTguMjk2OSAxNC4wMTY3QzE4LjM4MDQgMTMuNzY2NCAxOC42MzEgMTMuNTk5NiAxOC45NjUxIDEzLjUxNjFMMTkuNjMzMyAxMy40MzI3QzIwLjA1MDkgMTMuMzQ5MyAyMC4zODUgMTMuMDE1NiAyMC4zODUgMTIuNTk4NUMyMC4zODUgMTIuMjY0OCAyMC4zODUgMTEuOTMxMSAyMC4zODUgMTEuNjgwOUMyMC4zODUgMTEuMjYzOCAyMC4wNTA5IDEwLjkzMDEgMTkuNjMzMyAxMC44NDY3TDE4Ljk2NTEgMTAuNzYzM0MxOC43MTQ1IDEwLjc2MzMgMTguNDYzOSAxMC41MTMgMTguMjk2OSAxMC4yNjI3TDE3Ljc5NTcgOS4wMTE0NEMxNy43MTIyIDguNzYxMTggMTcuNzEyMiA4LjQyNzUgMTcuODc5MiA4LjE3NzI0TDE4LjI5NjkgNy41OTMyOUMxOC41NDc0IDcuMjU5NjEgMTguNTQ3NCA2Ljg0MjUxIDE4LjIxMzMgNi41MDg4M0MxOC4wNDYzIDYuMzQxOTkgMTcuNzk1NyA2LjA5MTczIDE3LjU0NTEgNS44NDE0N0MxNy4yMTEgNS41MDc3OSAxNi43OTM0IDUuNTA3NzkgMTYuNDU5MyA1Ljc1ODA1TDE2LjA0MTYgNi4xNzUxNUMxNS43OTExIDYuMzQxOTkgMTUuNDU3IDYuNDI1NDEgMTUuMjA2NCA2LjI1ODU3TDE0LjAzNyA1Ljc1ODA1QzEzLjc4NjQgNS42NzQ2MyAxMy42MTk0IDUuNDI0MzcgMTMuNTM1OCA1LjA5MDY5TDEzLjM2ODggNC41MDY3NUMxMy4yODUzIDQuMDg5NjQgMTIuOTUxMSAzLjc1NTk2IDEyLjUzMzUgMy43NTU5NkMxMi4xOTk0IDMuNzU1OTYgMTEuODY1MyAzLjc1NTk2IDExLjYxNDcgMy43NTU5NkMxMS4xOTcxIDMuNzU1OTYgMTAuODYzIDQuMDg5NjQgMTAuNzc5NSA0LjUwNjc1TDEwLjY5NTkgNS4xNzQxMUMxMC42OTU5IDUuNDI0MzcgMTAuNDQ1MyA1LjY3NDYzIDEwLjE5NDggNS44NDE0N0w5LjAyNTM5IDYuMjU4NTdDOC42OTEyOSA2LjQyNTQxIDguNDQwNzEgNi4zNDE5OSA4LjE5MDEzIDYuMTc1MTVMNy42MDU0NCA1Ljc1ODA1QzcuMjcxMzMgNS41MDc3OSA2Ljc3MDE3IDUuNTA3NzkgNi41MTk1OSA1Ljg0MTQ3QzYuMjY5MDEgNi4wMDgzMSA2LjEwMTk2IDYuMjU4NTcgNS44NTEzOCA2LjQyNTQxQzUuNjAwOCA2Ljc1OTA5IDUuNTE3MjcgNy4xNzYxOSA1Ljg1MTM4IDcuNTA5ODdMNi4xODU0OSA4LjA5MzgyQzYuMzUyNTQgOC4zNDQwOCA2LjQzNjA3IDguNjc3NzYgNi4yNjkwMSA4LjkyODAyTDUuNzY3ODUgMTAuMDk1OUM1LjY4NDMzIDEwLjM0NjIgNS40MzM3NSAxMC41MTMgNS4wOTk2NCAxMC41OTY0TDQuNDMxNDMgMTAuNjc5OEM0LjAxMzc5IDEwLjc2MzMgMy42Nzk2OSAxMS4wOTY5IDMuNjc5NjkgMTEuNTE0QzMuNjc5NjkgMTEuODQ3NyAzLjY3OTY5IDEyLjE4MTQgMy42Nzk2OSAxMi40MzE3QzMuNjc5NjkgMTIuODQ4OCA0LjAxMzc5IDEzLjE4MjUgNC40MzE0MyAxMy4yNjU5TDUuMDk5NjQgMTMuMzQ5M0M1LjM1MDIyIDEzLjM0OTMgNS42MDA4IDEzLjU5OTYgNS43Njc4NSAxMy44NDk4TDYuMjY5MDEgMTUuMTAxMUM2LjM1MjU0IDE1LjM1MTQgNi4zNTI1NCAxNS42ODUxIDYuMTg1NDkgMTUuOTM1M0w1Ljc2Nzg1IDE2LjUxOTNDNS41MTcyNyAxNi44NTI5IDUuNTE3MjcgMTcuMzUzNSA1Ljg1MTM4IDE3LjYwMzdDNi4wMTg0MyAxNy43NzA2IDYuMjY5MDEgMTguMDIwOCA2LjUxOTU5IDE4LjI3MTFDNi44NTM3IDE4LjUyMTMgNy4yNzEzMyAxOC42MDQ4IDcuNjA1NDQgMTguMzU0NUw4LjAyMzA3IDE3Ljg1NEM4LjI3MzY1IDE3LjY4NzEgOC42MDc3NiAxNy42MDM3IDguODU4MzQgMTcuNzcwNkwxMC4wMjc3IDE4LjI3MTFDMTAuMjc4MyAxOC4zNTQ1IDEwLjQ0NTMgMTguNjA0OCAxMC41Mjg5IDE4LjkzODRMMTAuNjEyNCAxOS42MDU4QzEwLjc3OTUgMjAuMDIyOSAxMS4xMTM2IDIwLjM1NjYgMTEuNTMxMiAyMC4zNTY2Wk0xOC43OTggNi45MjU5M0MxOC43OTggNi45MjU5MyAxOC43OTggNy4wMDkzNSAxOC43OTggNi45MjU5M1Y2LjkyNTkzWiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyLjAzMjQgMTcuMDE5OEM5LjI3NTk3IDE3LjAxOTggNy4wMjA3NSAxNC43Njc1IDcuMDIwNzUgMTIuMDE0NkM3LjAyMDc1IDkuMjYxNzIgOS4yNzU5NyA3LjAwOTM3IDEyLjAzMjQgNy4wMDkzN0MxNC43ODg3IDcuMDA5MzcgMTcuMDQ0IDkuMjYxNzIgMTcuMDQ0IDEyLjAxNDZDMTcuMDQ0IDE0Ljc2NzUgMTQuNzg4NyAxNy4wMTk4IDEyLjAzMjQgMTcuMDE5OFpNMTIuMDMyNCA4LjY3Nzc3QzEwLjE5NDggOC42Nzc3NyA4LjY5MTI5IDEwLjE3OTMgOC42OTEyOSAxMi4wMTQ2QzguNjkxMjkgMTMuODQ5OCAxMC4xOTQ4IDE1LjM1MTQgMTIuMDMyNCAxNS4zNTE0QzEzLjg2OTkgMTUuMzUxNCAxNS4zNzM0IDEzLjg0OTggMTUuMzczNCAxMi4wMTQ2QzE1LjM3MzQgMTAuMTc5MyAxMy44Njk5IDguNjc3NzcgMTIuMDMyNCA4LjY3Nzc3WiIgLz48L3N2Zz4=)
    **Settings**.
-   In the row with **HTTP access control**, click **Edit
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+Q2hldnJvbiBJY29uPC90aXRsZT4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTYuOTAwMDIgOS44OTk5QzYuOTAwMDIgOS41OTk5IDcuMDAwMDIgOS4zOTk5IDcuMjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5QzcuNjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguMjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguNjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5TDEyLjEgMTIuNjk5OUwxNS42IDkuMTk5OUMxNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTYuNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTcgOS4xOTk5QzE3LjQgOS41OTk5IDE3LjQgMTAuMTk5OSAxNyAxMC41OTk5TDEyLjggMTQuNzk5OUMxMi40IDE1LjE5OTkgMTEuOCAxNS4xOTk5IDExLjQgMTQuNzk5OUw3LjIwMDAyIDEwLjU5OTlDNy4wMDAwMiAxMC4zOTk5IDYuOTAwMDIgMTAuMTk5OSA2LjkwMDAyIDkuODk5OVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)**.
-   Enter the IP addresses or ranges into the **IP addresses** field.
    Put one address or range per line, followed by a space and then
    `allow` or `deny`.
-   Click **Save**.

Run the following command:

`upsun environment:http-access -e ENVIRONMENT_NAME --access allow:IPS_TO_ALLOW --access deny:IPS_TO_DENY`
#Create a basic PHP app with a front controller To handle dynamic
requests to your PHP app, you might want to use a \[front
controller\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Front_controller). The
following example shows how for such an app you might start defining
\[your web
server\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#web). \##
Define a document root Start by defining your document root (where all
your publicly visible pages are). \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" web: locations: \'/\': root: \'public\' \`\`\` \##
Define a front controller Define where all requests that don\'t match a
file in the document root are sent. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
source: root: \"/\" web: locations: \'/\': root: \'public\' passthru:
\'/index.php\' index: - index.php \`\`\` In this case, \`/index.php\`
acts as a front controller and handles dynamic requests. Because it
handles dynamic requests, you want to ensure that scripts are enabled
and responses aren\'t cached. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source:
root: \"/\" web: locations: \'/\': \... scripts: true \# No caching for
static files. \# (Dynamic pages use whatever cache headers are generated
by the program.) expires: -1 \`\`\` \## Define rules You might want to
define specific rules for the location. For example, you might want to
allow all kinds of files except mp4 files. \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: source: root: \"/\" web: locations: \'/\': \... \# Allow all file
types generally allow: true rules: \# Disallow .mp4 files specifically.
\\.mp4\$: allow: false \`\`\` \## Set different rules for specific
locations You might want to set specific rules for specific locations.
For example, you might have files in your \`/public/images\` directory
that are served at \`/images\`. You could define a specific cache time
for them and limit them to only static image files. \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" web: locations: \'/\': \... \#
Set a 5 min expiration time for static files in this location. \#
Missing files are sent to front controller \# through the \'/\' location
above. \'/images\': expires: 300 passthru: true \# Do not execute PHP
scripts from this location and do not \# deliver their source code (for
enhanced security). scripts: false allow: false rules: \# Only allow
static image files in this location
\'\\.(jpe?g\|png\|gif\|svgz?\|ico\|bmp)\$\': allow: true \`\`\` \##
Complete example \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\"
web: locations: \'/\': root: \'public\' passthru: \'/index.php\'
index: - index.php scripts: true \# No caching for static files. \#
(Dynamic pages use whatever cache headers are generated by the program.)
expires: -1 \# Allow all file types generally allow: true rules: \#
Disallow .mp4 files specifically. \\.mp4\$: allow: false \# Set a 5 min
expiration time for static files in this location. \# Missing files are
sent to front controller \# through the \'/\' location above.
\'/images\': expires: 300 passthru: true \# Do not execute PHP scripts
from this location and do not \# deliver their source code (for enhanced
security). scripts: false allow: false rules: \# Only allow static image
files in this location \'\\.(jpe?g\|png\|gif\|svgz?\|ico\|bmp)\$\':
allow: true \`\`\` #Data retention Upsun logs and stores various types
of data as a normal part of its business. This information is only
retained as needed to perform relevant business functions. Retention
periods vary depending on the type of data stored. If a legal
obligation, law enforcement request, or ongoing business need so
requires, data may be retained after the original purpose for which it
was collected ceases to exist. \## Account information Information
relating to customer accounts (login information, billing information,
etc.) is retained for as long as the account is active with Upsun.
Customers may request that their account be deleted and all related data
be purged by opening a \[support ticket\](/learn/overview/get-support).
\## System logs System level access and security logs are maintained by
Upsun for diagnostic purposes. These logs aren\'t customer-accessible.
These logs are retained for at least 6 months and at most 2 years
depending upon legal and standards compliance required for each system.
\## Application logs Application logs on each customer environment are
retained with the environment. Individual log files are truncated at 100
MB, regardless of their age. See how to \[access
logs\](../increase-observability/logs/access-logs.md). When an
environment is deleted, its application logs are deleted as well. \##
Backups The backups retention depends on the \[automated backup
policy\](../environments/backup.md#automated-backups). \## Tombstone
backups When a project is deleted, Upsun takes a final backup of active
environments, as well as the Git repository holding user code. This
final backup is to allow Upsun to recover a recently deleted project in
case of accident. These \"tombstone\" backups are retained for between 7
days and 6 months depending upon legal and standards compliance required
for each system. \## Analytics Upsun uses Google Analytics on various
web pages, and so Google Analytics stores collected data for a period of
time. We have configured our Google Analytics account to store data for
14 months from the time you last accessed our site, which is the minimum
Google allows. \## Trials User data - which includes pushed code and
data contained within services - is retained for a shorter period during
trials. See \[Trial details\](/glossary#trial). #Deactivate an
environment If you have environments you aren\'t using, you may want to
deactivate them to save resources for what you need. To deactivate an
environment, you need to be an admin for the project or the given
environment.

### Note

Your default environment is protected. It can't be deactivated through
the Console or the CLI. To change which environment is the default, see
how to rename the default branch.

Deactivating the project results in the following: \* The environment
becomes \[inactive\](/glossary.md#inactive-environment). Unless it\'s
reactivated, it\'s no longer deployed and isn\'t accessible from the web
or via SSH. \* All services running on this environment are deleted. \*
All data specific to the environment is deleted. If the environment is
reactivated, it syncs data from its parent environment. \## Deactivate
an environment To deactivate an environment, follow these steps:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

<!-- -->

-   Select the project with an environment you want to deactivate.
-   From the **Environment** menu, select the environment.
-   Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
-   In the row with **Status**, click **Edit
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+Q2hldnJvbiBJY29uPC90aXRsZT4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTYuOTAwMDIgOS44OTk5QzYuOTAwMDIgOS41OTk5IDcuMDAwMDIgOS4zOTk5IDcuMjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5QzcuNjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguMjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguNjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5TDEyLjEgMTIuNjk5OUwxNS42IDkuMTk5OUMxNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTYuNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTcgOS4xOTk5QzE3LjQgOS41OTk5IDE3LjQgMTAuMTk5OSAxNyAxMC41OTk5TDEyLjggMTQuNzk5OUMxMi40IDE1LjE5OTkgMTEuOCAxNS4xOTk5IDExLjQgMTQuNzk5OUw3LjIwMDAyIDEwLjU5OTlDNy4wMDAwMiAxMC4zOTk5IDYuOTAwMDIgMTAuMTk5OSA2LjkwMDAyIDkuODk5OVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)**.
-   Select the checkbox to show you understand the consequences.
-   Click **Deactivate & Delete Data**.
-   Confirm your choice.

Run the following command:

`upsun environment:deactivate ENVIRONMENT_NAME` \## Delete the branch
Inactive environments still have branches in Git. To delete the branch
entirely, run the following command: \`\`\`bash git push origin
\--delete BRANCH_NAME \`\`\` \## Reactivate an environment Reactivating
an environment \[syncs\](/glossary.md#sync) data from its parent
environment. To reactivate an inactive environment, follow these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

<!-- -->

-   Select the project with an environment you want to reactivate.
-   From the **Environment** menu, select the environment.
-   Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
-   In the row with **Status**, click **Edit
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+Q2hldnJvbiBJY29uPC90aXRsZT4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTYuOTAwMDIgOS44OTk5QzYuOTAwMDIgOS41OTk5IDcuMDAwMDIgOS4zOTk5IDcuMjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5QzcuNjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguMjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguNjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5TDEyLjEgMTIuNjk5OUwxNS42IDkuMTk5OUMxNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTYuNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTcgOS4xOTk5QzE3LjQgOS41OTk5IDE3LjQgMTAuMTk5OSAxNyAxMC41OTk5TDEyLjggMTQuNzk5OUMxMi40IDE1LjE5OTkgMTEuOCAxNS4xOTk5IDExLjQgMTQuNzk5OUw3LjIwMDAyIDEwLjU5OTlDNy4wMDAwMiAxMC4zOTk5IDYuOTAwMDIgMTAuMTk5OSA2LjkwMDAyIDkuODk5OVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)**.
-   Click **Activate**.

Run the following command:

`upsun environment:activate ENVIRONMENT_NAME` If you\'re not using a
\[source integration\](/integrations/source/\_index.md), you can also
activate an environment when pushing changes to it. To do so, run the
following command: \`\`\`bash git push -o \"environment.status=active\"
\`\`\` Learn more about how to \[trigger actions on
\`push\`\](/environments/\_index.md#push-options). #Delete a project To
delete a project, you must be an organization owner or have the \[manage
plans permission\](../administration/users.md#organization-permissions).
To delete a Upsun project, including all data, code, and active
environments:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   In the Console
-   Using the CLI

<!-- -->

-   On the tile of the project you want to delete, click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiA2LjVDMTIuODI4NCA2LjUgMTMuNSA1LjgyODQzIDEzLjUgNUMxMy41IDQuMTcxNTcgMTIuODI4NCAzLjUgMTIgMy41QzExLjE3MTYgMy41IDEwLjUgNC4xNzE1NyAxMC41IDVDMTAuNSA1LjgyODQzIDExLjE3MTYgNi41IDEyIDYuNVoiIC8+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAxMy41QzEyLjgyODQgMTMuNSAxMy41IDEyLjgyODQgMTMuNSAxMkMxMy41IDExLjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxMC41IDEyIDEwLjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxMC41IDEwLjUgMTEuMTcxNiAxMC41IDEyQzEwLjUgMTIuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDEzLjUgMTIgMTMuNVoiIC8+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    More**.
-   Click **Edit plan**.
-   Click **Delete project**.
-   To confirm your choice, enter the project's name.
-   Click **Yes, Delete Project**.

1.  Run the following command:

    `upsun project:delete --project PROJECT_ID`

2.  Read the consequences to deletion and enter `y`.

3.  Enter the project title to confirm.

You are billed only for the portion of a month when the project was
active. When you remove all your projects from your user account, you
stop being charged. #Elixir

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

Upsun supports building and deploying applications written in Elixir.
There is no default flavor for the build phase, but you can define it
explicitly in your build hook. Upsun Elixir images support both
committed dependencies and download-on-demand. The underlying Erlang
version is 22.0.7. \## Supported versions You can select the major and
minor version. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and
the like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest available
patches.

-   1.15
-   1.14

\### Specify the language To use Elixir, specify \`elixir\` as your
\[app\'s
\`type\`\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#types):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique
within the project. : type: \'elixir:\' \`\`\` For example: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the
project. myapp: type: \'elixir:1.15\' \`\`\` \## Built-in variables
Upsun exposes relationships and other configuration as \[environment
variables\](../development/variables/\_index.md). Most notably, it
allows a program to determine at runtime what HTTP port it should listen
on and what the credentials are to access \[other
services\](../add-services/\_index.md). To get the \`PORT\` environment
variable (the port on which your web application is supposed to listen)
you would: \`\`\`elixir String.to_integer(System.get_env(\"PORT\") \|\|
\"8888\") \`\`\` Some of the environment variables are in JSON format
and are base64 encoded. You would need to import a JSON parsing library
such as \[JSON\](https://hexdocs.pm/json/readme.html) or
\[Poison\](https://hexdocs.pm/poison/api-reference.html) to read those.
(There is an example for doing this to decode the
\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` environment variable in the section
\[below\](#accessing-services-manually).)

### Tip

Remember `config/prod.exs` is evaluated at **build time** and has no
access to runtime configuration. Use `config/releases.exs` to configure
your runtime environment.

\## Building and running the application If you are using Hex to manage
your dependencies, you need to specify the \`MIX_ENV\` environment
variable: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: \'elixir:1.15\'
variables: env: MIX_ENV: \'prod\' \`\`\` The \`SECRET_KEY_BASE\`
variable is generated automatically based on the
\[\`PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\`
variable\](../development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
You can change it. Include in your build hook the steps to retrieve a
local Hex and \`rebar\`, and then run \`mix do deps.get, deps.compile,
compile\` on your application to build a binary. \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: type: \'elixir:1.15\' hooks: build: \| mix
local.hex \--force mix local.rebar \--force mix do deps.get \--only
prod, deps.compile, compile \`\`\`

### Note

That build hook works for most cases and assumes that your `mix.exs`
file is located at [your app
root](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#root-directory).

Assuming \`mix.exs\` is present at your app root and your build hook
matches the above, you can then start it from the \`web.commands.start\`
directive. The following basic app configuration is sufficient to run
most Elixir applications. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type:
\'elixir:1.15\' variables: env: MIX_ENV: \'prod\' hooks: build: \| mix
local.hex \--force mix local.rebar \--force mix do deps.get \--only
prod, deps.compile, compile web: commands: start: mix phx.server
locations: /: allow: false passthru: true \`\`\` Note that there is
still an Nginx proxy server sitting in front of your application. If
desired, certain paths may be served directly by Nginx without hitting
your application (for static files, primarily) or you may route all
requests to the Elixir application unconditionally, as in the example
above. \## Dependencies The recommended way to handle Elixir
dependencies on Upsun is using Hex. You can commit a \`mix.exs\` file in
your repository and the system downloads the dependencies in your
\`deps\` section using the build hook above. \`\`\`elixir defp deps do
\[ {:platformshconfig, \"\~\> 0.1.0\"} \] end \`\`\` \## Accessing
Services You can access service credentials to connect to \[managed
services\](/add-services/) from environment variables present in the
application container. Consult each of the individual service
documentation to see how to retrieve and surface credentials into your
application. -
\[ClickHouse\](/add-services/clickhouse.html#usage-example) -
\[Elasticsearch\](/add-services/elasticsearch.html#use-in-app) -
\[Gotenberg\](/add-services/gotenberg.html#usage-example) - \[Headless
Chrome\](/add-services/headless-chrome.html#use-in-app) -
\[InfluxDB\](/add-services/influxdb.html#use-in-app) -
\[Kafka\](/add-services/kafka.html#use-in-app) -
\[MariaDB/MySQL\](/add-services/mysql.html#use-in-app) -
\[Memcached\](/add-services/memcached.html#use-in-app) -
\[MongoDB\](/add-services/mongodb.html#use-in-app) - \[Network
Storage\](/add-services/network-storage.html#usage-example) -
\[OpenSearch\](/add-services/opensearch.html#use-in-app) -
\[PostgreSQL\](/add-services/postgresql.html#use-in-app) -
\[RabbitMQ\](/add-services/rabbitmq.html#use-in-app) -
\[Redis\](/add-services/redis.html#use-in-app) -
\[Solr\](/add-services/solr.html#use-in-app) -
\[Varnish\](/add-services/varnish.html#usage-example) - \[Vault
KMS\](/add-services/vault.html#use-vault-kms) \### Accessing Services
Manually The services configuration is available in the environment
variable \`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`. Given a
\[relationship\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships)
defined in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
type: \'elixir:1.15\' \[\...\] \# Relationships enable an app
container\'s access to a service. \# The example below shows simplified
configuration leveraging a default service \# (identified from the
relationship name) and a default endpoint. \# See the Application
reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints.
relationships: postgresql: \`\`\` Assuming you have in \`mix.exs\` the
Poison library to parse JSON: \`\`\`elixir defp deps do \[ {:poison,
\"\~\> 3.0\"} \] end \`\`\` And assuming you use \`ecto\` you could put
in \`config/config.exs\`: \`\`\`elixir relationships =
Poison.decode!(Base.decode64!(System.get_env(\"PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\")))
\[postgresql_config \| \_tail\] = relationships\[\"postgresql\"\] config
:my_app, Repo, database: postgresql_config\[\"path\"\], username:
postgresql_config\[\"username\"\], password:
postgresql_config\[\"password\"\], hostname:
postgresql_config\[\"host\"\] \`\`\` and setup Ecto during the deploy
hook: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: hooks: deploy: \| mix do
ecto.setup \`\`\` #Example: Discord The following example activity
script posts a message to a Discord channel every time it\'s triggered.
To use it, follow these steps: 1. In your Discord administrative
interface, \[create a new Discord
webhook\](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668-Intro-to-Webhooks).
Give it a name and specify the channel where it should post messages.
Copy the URL for the webhook. 2. Replace \`DISCORD_URL\` in the
following script with your webhook URL. 3. Paste the code into a \`.js\`
file. 4. Add it as a new \[script
integration\](./\_index.md#installing). Specify which events should
trigger it using the \`\--events\` flag. Optionally specify environments
with the \`\--environments\` flag. Now, any activities that meet the
events/environment criteria you specified are reported to Discord. Once
you have it working, you\'re free to modify the code below as desired.
For more on the message format, see the \[Discord webhook API
reference\](https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/webhook#execute-webhook).
\`\`\`javascript /\*\* \* Sends a message to Discord. \* \* To control
what events trigger it, use the \--events switch in \* the Upsun CLI. \*
\* \@param {string} title \* The title of the message block to send. \*
\@param {string} message \* The message body to send. \*/ function
sendDiscordMessage(title, message) { const url = DISCORD_URL; const
messageTitle = title + (new Date().getDay() === 5) ? \" (On a Friday!
:calendar:)\" : \"\"; const body = { content: messageTitle, embeds: \[ {
description: message, }, \], }; const resp = fetch(url, { method:
\"POST\", headers: { \"Content-Type\": \"application/json\", }, body:
JSON.stringify(body), }); if (!resp.ok) { console.log(\"Sending Discord
message failed: \" + resp.body.text()); } }
sendDiscordMessage(activity.text, activity.log); \`\`\` Common
properties you may want to send to Discord (in the last line of the
script) include: - \`activity.text\`: A brief, one-line statement of
what happened. - \`activity.log\`: The complete build and deploy log
output, as it would be seen in the Console log screen. For more
properties, see the \[activity reference\](./reference.md). #Example:
Slack The following example activity script posts a message to a Slack
channel every time it\'s triggered. To use it, follow these steps: 1. In
your Slack administrative interface, \[create a new Slack
webhook\](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks). You get a URL
starting with \`https://hooks.slack.com/\`. 2. Replace \`SLACK_URL\` in
the following script with your webhook URL. 3. Paste the code into a
\`.js\` file. 4. Add it as a new \[script
integration\](./\_index.md#installing). Specify which events should
trigger it using the \`\--events\` flag. Optionally specify environments
with the \`\--environments\` flag. Now, any activities that meet the
events/environment criteria you specified are reported to Slack. Once
you have it working, you\'re free to modify the code below as desired.
For formatting more complex messages, see the \[Slack messaging
documentation\](https://api.slack.com/messaging/composing/layouts).
\`\`\`javascript /\*\* \* Sends a color-coded formatted message to
Slack. \* \* To control what events trigger it, use the \--events switch
in \* the Upsun CLI. \* \* \@param {string} title \* The title of the
message block to send. \* \@param {string} message \* The message body
to send. \*/ function sendSlackMessage(title, message) { const url =
SLACK_URL; const messageTitle = title + (new Date().getDay() === 5) ? \"
(On a Friday! :calendar:)\" : \"\"; const color = activity.result ===
\"success\" ? \"#66c000\" : \"#ff0000\"; const body = { attachments: \[
{ title: messageTitle, text: message, color: color, }, \], }; const resp
= fetch(url, { method: \"POST\", headers: { \"Content-Type\":
\"application/json\", }, body: JSON.stringify(body), }); if (!resp.ok) {
console.log(\"Sending slack message failed: \" + resp.body.text()); } }
sendSlackMessage(activity.text, activity.log); \`\`\` Common properties
you may want to send to Slack (in the last line of the script)
include: - \`activity.text\`: A brief, one-line statement of what
happened. - \`activity.log\`: The complete build and deploy log output,
as it would be seen in the Console log screen. For more properties, see
the \[activity reference\](./reference.md). #Exporting data As a Upsun
user, your code and data belong to you. At any time, you can download
your site\'s data for local development, to back up your data, or to
change provider. \## Before you begin You need: -
\[Git\](https://git-scm.com/downloads) - A Upsun account - Code in your
project - Optional: the \[Upsun CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md)
\## 1. Download your app\'s code Your app\'s code is maintained through
the Git version control system. To download your entire app\'s code
history:

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   Using Git

1.  List all your projects by running the following command:

    `upsun projects`

2.  Retrieve the project you want to back up by running the following
    command:

    `upsun get PROJECT_ID`

<!-- -->

1.  In the Console, open your project and click **Code
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+Q2hldnJvbiBJY29uPC90aXRsZT4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTYuOTAwMDIgOS44OTk5QzYuOTAwMDIgOS41OTk5IDcuMDAwMDIgOS4zOTk5IDcuMjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5QzcuNjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguMjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguNjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5TDEyLjEgMTIuNjk5OUwxNS42IDkuMTk5OUMxNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTYuNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTcgOS4xOTk5QzE3LjQgOS41OTk5IDE3LjQgMTAuMTk5OSAxNyAxMC41OTk5TDEyLjggMTQuNzk5OUMxMi40IDE1LjE5OTkgMTEuOCAxNS4xOTk5IDExLjQgMTQuNzk5OUw3LjIwMDAyIDEwLjU5OTlDNy4wMDAwMiAxMC4zOTk5IDYuOTAwMDIgMTAuMTk5OSA2LjkwMDAyIDkuODk5OVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)**.

2.  Click **Git**.

3.  To copy the command, click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+Q29weSBpY29uPC90aXRsZT4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPGc+PHBhdGggZD0iTTE4LjUsMjFoLTljLTEuMSwwLTItMC45LTItMlY5YzAtMS4xLDAuOS0yLDItMmg5YzEuMSwwLDIsMC45LDIsMnYxMEMyMC41LDIwLjEsMTkuNiwyMSwxOC41LDIxeiBNOS41LDl2MTBoOSBWOUg5LjV6IiAvPjwvZz48Zz48cGF0aCBkPSJNMTUuNSw0YzAsMC41LTAuNSwxLTEsMWgtOXY5YzAsMC41LTAuNSwxLTEsMXMtMS0wLjUtMS0xVjVjMC0xLjEsMC45LTIsMi0yaDlDMTUsMywxNS41LDMuNSwxNS41LDR6IiAvPjwvZz48L3N2Zz4=)
    Copy**. The command is similar to the following:

    `git clone abcdefgh1234567@git.eu.upsun.com:abcdefgh1234567.git project-name`

\## 2. Download your files Some files might not be stored in Git, such
as data your app writes \[in
mounts\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts). You
can download your files \[using the
CLI\](/development/file-transfer.md#transfer-files-using-the-cli) or
\[using
SSH\](/development/file-transfer.md#transfer-files-using-an-ssh-client).
\## 3. Download data from services The mechanism for downloading from
each service (such as your database) varies. For services designed to
hold non-persistent data, such as \[Redis\](/add-services/redis.md) or
\[Solr\](/add-services/solr.md), it\'s generally not necessary to
download data as it can be rebuilt from the primary data store. For
services designed to hold persistent data, see each service\'s page for
instructions: -
\[MySQL\](/add-services/mysql/\_index.md#exporting-data) -
\[PostgreSQL\](/add-services/postgresql.md#exporting-data) -
\[MongoDB\](/add-services/mongodb.md#exporting-data) -
\[InfluxDB\](/add-services/influxdb.md#export-data) \## 4. Get
environment variables Environment variables can contain critical
information such as tokens or additional configuration options for your
app. Environment variables can have different prefixes: - Variables
beginning with \`env:\` are exposed \[as Unix environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#top-level-environment-variables). -
Variables beginning with \`php:\` are interpreted \[as \`php.ini\`
directives\](/development/variables/\_index.md#php-specific-variables).
All other variables are \[part of
\`\$PLATFORM_VARIABLES\`\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
To back up your environment variables:

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

1.  Get the variable's values by running the following command:

    `upsun ssh -- 'echo $PLATFORM_VARIABLES | base64 -d | jq'`

    Note that you can also get all the environment variable values by
    running the following command:

    `upsun ssh -- env`

2.  Store the data somewhere secure on your computer.

<!-- -->

1.  In the Console, open your project and click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)**.
2.  Click **Project Settings
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+Q2hldnJvbiBJY29uPC90aXRsZT4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik02LjkwMDAyIDkuODk5OUM2LjkwMDAyIDkuNTk5OSA3LjAwMDAyIDkuMzk5OSA3LjIwMDAyIDkuMTk5OUM3LjYwMDAyIDguNzk5OSA4LjIwMDAyIDguNzk5OSA4LjYwMDAyIDkuMTk5OUwxMi4xIDEyLjY5OTlMMTUuNiA5LjE5OTlDMTYgOC43OTk5IDE2LjYgOC43OTk5IDE3IDkuMTk5OUMxNy40IDkuNTk5OSAxNy40IDEwLjE5OTkgMTcgMTAuNTk5OUwxMi44IDE0Ljc5OTlDMTIuNCAxNS4xOTk5IDExLjggMTUuMTk5OSAxMS40IDE0Ljc5OTlMNy4yMDAwMiAxMC41OTk5QzcuMDAwMDIgMTAuMzk5OSA2LjkwMDAyIDEwLjE5OTkgNi45MDAwMiA5Ljg5OTlaIiAvPjwvc3ZnPg==)**.
3.  Click **Variables** and access your variable's values and settings.
4.  Store the data somewhere secure on your computer.

Note that in the Console, you can't access the value of variables that
have been [marked as
sensitive](/development/variables/set-variables.html#variable-options).
Use the CLI to retrieve these values.

\## What\'s next - Migrate data from elsewhere \[into
Upsun\](/learn/tutorials/migrating/\_index.md). - Migrate to \[another
region\](/projects/region-migration.md). - To use data from an
environment locally, export your data and set up your \[local
development environment\](/development/local/\_index.md). #Feedback on
specific docs pages #From Platform.sh If you already have an app running
somewhere else, you want to migrate it to Upsun and deploy it. To do so,
follow these steps. \## Before you begin You need: - An app that works
and is ready to be built - Code in Git - A Upsun account \-- if you
don\'t already have one, \[register\](https://upsun.com/register/). -
The \[Upsun CLI\](/administration/cli/\_index.md) installed locally
\## 1. Export from previous system Start by exporting everything you
might need from your current app. This includes data in databases, files
on a file system, and for some apps, such as Drupal, configuration that
you need to export from the system into files. \## 2. Create a project

::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

If you do not already have an organization created on Upsun, create one:

`upsun org:create`

Then run the following command to create a project:

`upsun project:create`

When prompted, fill in details like the project name, region, and the
name of your organization.

[Create a new project from
scratch](https://console.upsun.com/org/create-project/info?_utm_campaign=cta_deploy_marketplace_template&utm_source=public_documentation&_utm_medium=organic).

If you do not already have an organization created to put the project,
you'll first be instructed to create one.

Once you have done so, select that organization from the dropdown, and
select **Create from scratch**.

In the form, fill in details like the project name and region. You'll be
able to define resources for the project after your first push.

\## 3. Add configuration The exact configuration you want depends on
your app. You likely want to configure three areas: - \[The app
itself\](/create-apps/\_index.md) \-- this is the only required
configuration - \[Services\](/add-services/\_index.md) -
\[Routes\](/define-routes/\_index.md) When you\'ve added your
configuration, make sure to commit it to Git. \## 4. Optional: Define a
resource initialization strategy By default, when you first deploy your
project, Upsun allocates \[default
resources\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md) to each of your
containers. If you don\'t want to use those default resources, define
your own \[resource initialization
strategy\](/manage-resources/resource-init#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy)
before pushing your code. Alternatively, you can \[amend those default
container resources\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.md) after your
project is deployed. \## 5. Push your code The way to push your code to
Upsun depends on whether you\'re hosting your code with a third-party
service using a \[source integration\](/integrations/source/\_index.md).
If you aren\'t, your repository is hosted in Upsun and you can use the
CLI or just Git itself.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   Using a source integration
-   Using Git

1.  Get your project ID by running the following command:

    `upsun projects`

2.  Add Upsun as a remote repository by running the following command:

    `upsun project:set-remote PROJECT_ID`

3.  Push to the Upsun repository by running the following command:

    `upsun push`

When you try to push, any detected errors in your configuration are
reported and block the push. After any errors are fixed, a push creates
a new environment.

Set up the integration for your selected service:

-   Bitbucket
-   GitHub
-   GitLab

Then push code to that service as you do normally. Pushing to a branch
creates an environment from that branch.

Note that the source integration doesn't report any errors in
configuration directly. You have to monitor those in your project
activities.

1.  Add an SSH key.
2.  In the Console, open your project and click **Code
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+Q2hldnJvbiBJY29uPC90aXRsZT4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik02LjkwMDAyIDkuODk5OUM2LjkwMDAyIDkuNTk5OSA3LjAwMDAyIDkuMzk5OSA3LjIwMDAyIDkuMTk5OUM3LjYwMDAyIDguNzk5OSA4LjIwMDAyIDguNzk5OSA4LjYwMDAyIDkuMTk5OUwxMi4xIDEyLjY5OTlMMTUuNiA5LjE5OTlDMTYgOC43OTk5IDE2LjYgOC43OTk5IDE3IDkuMTk5OUMxNy40IDkuNTk5OSAxNy40IDEwLjE5OTkgMTcgMTAuNTk5OUwxMi44IDE0Ljc5OTlDMTIuNCAxNS4xOTk5IDExLjggMTUuMTk5OSAxMS40IDE0Ljc5OTlMNy4yMDAwMiAxMC41OTk5QzcuMDAwMDIgMTAuMzk5OSA2LjkwMDAyIDEwLjE5OTkgNi45MDAwMiA5Ljg5OTlaIiAvPjwvc3ZnPg==)**.
3.  Click **Git**.
4.  From the displayed command, copy the location of your repository. It
    should have a format similar to the following:

`abcdefgh1234567@git.eu.upsun.com:abcdefgh1234567.git`

1.  Add Upsun as a remote repository by running the following command:

`git remote add upsun REPOSITORY_LOCATION`

1.  Push to the Upsun repository by running the following command:

`git push -u upsun DEFAULT_BRANCH_NAME`

When you try to push, any detected errors in your configuration are
reported and block the push. After any errors are fixed, a push creates
a new environment.

\## 6. Import data Once you have an environment, you can import the data
you backed up at step 1. The exact process may depend on the service you
use. For SQL databases, for example, you can use a version of this
command: \`\`\`bash upsun sql \< BACKUP_FILE_NAME \`\`\` For any
potential more details, see the \[specific
service\](/add-services/\_index.md). \## 7. Import files Your app may
include content files, meaning files that aren\'t intended to be part of
your codebase so aren\'t in Git. You can upload such files to \[mounts
you
created\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts).
Upload to each mount separately. Suppose you have the following mounts
defined: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: mounts: \'web/uploads\':
source: local source_path: uploads \'private\': source: local
source_path: private \`\`\` \`instance\` mounts on Upsun are the
equivalent of \`local\` mounts on Platform.sh. To ensure continuity when
migrating from Platform.sh to Upsun, the \`local\` mount type works as
an alias for the \`instance\` mount type. However, it is recommended to
change the type of your \`local\` mounts to \`instance\` or another
\[supported mount
type\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#define-a-mount).
For example: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: mounts: \'web/uploads\':
source: instance source_path: uploads \'private\': source: instance
source_path: private \`\`\` Then, to upload your files, run a command
similar to the following: \`\`\`bash upsun mount:upload \--mount
web/uploads \--source ./uploads upsun mount:upload \--mount private
\--source ./private \`\`\` Alternatively, you can upload to your mounts
using a different \[SSH
method\](/development/file-transfer.md#transfer-files-using-an-ssh-client).
\## Optional: Add variables If your app requires environment variables
to build properly, \[add them to your
environment\](/development/variables/set-variables.md). \## What\'s next
Now that your app is ready to be deployed, you can do more: - \[Add a
domain\](/domains/steps/\_index.md). - Set up for \[local
development\](/development/local/\_index.md). - Configure \[health
notifications\](/integrations/notifications.md). - For monitoring and
profiling, \[integrate
Blackfire\](/increase-observability/application-metrics/blackfire.md).
#Go

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

Upsun supports building and deploying applications written in Go using
Go modules. They're compiled during the Build hook phase, and support
both committed dependencies and download-on-demand. \## Supported
versions You can select the major and minor version. Patch versions are
applied periodically for bug fixes and the like. When you deploy your
app, you always get the latest available patches.

-   1.23
-   1.22
-   1.21
-   1.20

\### Specify the language To use Go, specify \`golang\` as your \[app\'s
\`type\`\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#types):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique
within the project. : type: \'golang:\' \`\`\` For example: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the
project. myapp: type: \'golang:1.23\' \`\`\` \### Deprecated versions
The following versions are
\[deprecated\](/glossary.html#deprecated-versions). They\'re available,
but they aren\'t receiving security updates from upstream and aren\'t
guaranteed to work. They\'ll be removed in the future, so migrate to one
of the \[supported versions\](#supported-versions).

-   1.19
-   1.18
-   1.17
-   1.16
-   1.15
-   1.14
-   1.13
-   1.12
-   1.11
-   1.10
-   1.9
-   1.8

\## Go modules The recommended way to handle Go dependencies on Upsun is
using Go module support in Go 1.11 and later. That allows the build
process to use \`go build\` directly without any extra steps, and you
can specify an output executable file of your choice. (See the examples
below.) \## Building and running the application Assuming your
\`go.mod\` and \`go.sum\` files are present in your repository, your
application can be built with the command \`go build\`, to produce a
working executable. You can then start it from the
\`web.commands.start\` directive. Note that the start command \_must\_
run in the foreground. If the program terminates for any reason it is
automatically restarted. The following basic \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file
is sufficient to run most Go applications. \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
\# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the project. myapp:
type: \'golang:1.23\' hooks: build: \| \# Modify this line if you want
to build differently or \# use an alternate name for your executable. go
build -o bin/app web: upstream: socket_family: tcp protocol: http
commands: \# If you change the build output in the build hook above,
update this line as well. start: ./bin/app locations: /: \# Route all
requests to the Go app, unconditionally. allow: false passthru: true
\`\`\` Note that there is still an Nginx proxy server sitting in front
of your application. If desired, certain paths may be served directly by
Nginx without hitting your application (for static files, primarily) or
you may route all requests to the Go application unconditionally, as in
the example above. \## Accessing services To access various
\[services\](../add-services/\_index.md) with Go, see the following
examples. The individual service pages have more information on
configuring each service. You can access service credentials to connect
to \[managed services\](/add-services/) from environment variables
present in the application container. Consult each of the individual
service documentation to see how to retrieve and surface credentials
into your application. -
\[ClickHouse\](/add-services/clickhouse.html#usage-example) -
\[Elasticsearch\](/add-services/elasticsearch.html#use-in-app) -
\[Gotenberg\](/add-services/gotenberg.html#usage-example) - \[Headless
Chrome\](/add-services/headless-chrome.html#use-in-app) -
\[InfluxDB\](/add-services/influxdb.html#use-in-app) -
\[Kafka\](/add-services/kafka.html#use-in-app) -
\[MariaDB/MySQL\](/add-services/mysql.html#use-in-app) -
\[Memcached\](/add-services/memcached.html#use-in-app) -
\[MongoDB\](/add-services/mongodb.html#use-in-app) - \[Network
Storage\](/add-services/network-storage.html#usage-example) -
\[OpenSearch\](/add-services/opensearch.html#use-in-app) -
\[PostgreSQL\](/add-services/postgresql.html#use-in-app) -
\[RabbitMQ\](/add-services/rabbitmq.html#use-in-app) -
\[Redis\](/add-services/redis.html#use-in-app) -
\[Solr\](/add-services/solr.html#use-in-app) -
\[Varnish\](/add-services/varnish.html#usage-example) - \[Vault
KMS\](/add-services/vault.html#use-vault-kms) #HTTP metrics The HTTP
metrics dashboard provides Upsun users with network-related metrics.
Those insights are designed to help them better understand the state of
their applications. Those metrics can be accessed by clicking the
\*\*HTTP metrics\*\* tab on the environment page within the console. The
HTTP metrics dashboard can help you: - Verify if there were any recent
spikes in error responses - Check bandwidth consumption to determine if
there were any service interruptions - Identify specific URLs causing
site-wide issues - Prioritize performance optimization (see
\[application metrics\](../application-metrics/\_index.md)) \## HTTP
requests status graph The \*\*HTTP requests\*\* graph provides an
aggregated view of the health of HTTP requests made to the application.
It reflects the status responses (e.g. 1XX, 2XX, 3XX, 4XX, 5XX) of HTTP
requests across a defined time frame. This graph helps identify surge of
error responses or periods of elevated request activity. \## Bandwidth
usage graph The \*\*Bandwidth\*\* graph displays the data transfer
volume. It represents incoming (data the app receives) and outgoing
(data the app sends) bandwidth usage over time. This graph helps
identify bandwidth bottlenecks, optimize resource allocation, and track
bandwidth usage. \## Top 10 most impactful URLs The \*\*Top 10 URL
Impact\*\* graph and list pinpoint high-traffic or resource-intensive
URLs for targeted optimization or investigation. It showcases the
evolution over time of the top-10 most impactful URLs during a given
time frame. This graph helps identify potential trouble spots,
understand user behavior, and prioritize areas for optimization.
#Integrate with Bitbucket If you have code in a Bitbucket repository,
you might want to connect it to a Upsun project. This means you can keep
your Bitbucket workflows and treat the Bitbucket repository as the
source of truth for your code. Your Upsun project becomes a mirror of
your Bitbucket repository. This means you shouldn\'t push code directly
to Upsun. Any changes you push directly get overwritten by the
integration when changes happen in the Bitbucket repository. When you
set up an integration with Bitbucket, it automates the following
processes for you: - Creating a new environment when a branch is created
or a pull request is opened. - Rebuilding the environment when new code
is pushed to Bitbucket. - Deleting the environment when a pull request
is merged. You can set up an integration with either Bitbucket Cloud or
a self-hosted \[Bitbucket
Server\](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucketserver/). \## Before
you begin To manage source integrations, you need to be a \[project
admin\](../../administration/users.md). You also need a Bitbucket Cloud
or Bitbucket Server repository with working code. \## Bitbucket Cloud
\### 1. Create an OAuth consumer To integrate your Upsun project with an
existing Bitbucket Cloud repository, \[create an OAuth
consumer\](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/use-oauth-on-bitbucket-cloud/):
\![A screenshot of how to setup the Bitbucket OAuth
consumer\](/images/integrations/bitbucket/bitbucket-oauth-consumer.svg
\"0.35\")

### Note

Be sure to define the above as a *private* consumer by checking the
**This is a private consumer** box.

The \*\*Callback URL\*\* isn\'t important in this case. You can set it
to \`http://localhost\`. Copy the \*\*Key\*\* and \*\*Secret\*\* for
your consumer. \### 2. Enable the Cloud integration To enable the
integration, use either the \[CLI\](/administration/cli.html) or the
\[Console\](/administration/web.html).

::::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following command:

`upsun integration:add \ --project PROJECT_ID \ --type bitbucket \ --repository OWNER/REPOSITORY \ --key CONSUMER_KEY \ --secret CONSUMER_SECRET`

-   `PROJECT_ID` is the ID of your Upsun project.
-   `OWNER/REPOSITORY` is the name of your repository in Bitbucket.
-   `CONSUMER_KEY` is the key of the [OAuth consumer you
    created](#1-create-an-oauth-consumer).
-   `CONSUMER_SECRET` is the secret of the [OAuth consumer you
    created](#1-create-an-oauth-consumer).

For example, if your repository is located at
`https://bitbucket.org/platformsh/platformsh-docs`, the command is
similar to the following:

`upsun integration:add \ --project abcdefgh1234567 \ --type bitbucket \ --repository platformsh/platformsh-docs \ --key abc123 \ --secret abcd1234 \`

1.  Select the project where you want to enable the integration.
2.  Click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+U2V0dGluZ3M8L3RpdGxlPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMC41Mjg5IDIxLjk0MTZDOS44NjA2NiAyMS44NTgyIDkuMzU5NSAyMS4zNTc2IDkuMTkyNDUgMjAuNjkwM0w5LjAyNTM5IDE5LjY4OTJDOC44NTgzNCAxOS42MDU4IDguNzc0ODIgMTkuNjA1OCA4LjYwNzc2IDE5LjUyMjRMNy45Mzk1NSAyMC4wMjI5QzcuNDM4MzkgMjAuNDQgNi42ODY2NSAyMC40NCA2LjEwMTk2IDIwLjAyMjlDNi4xMDE5NiAyMC4wMjI5IDQuMDk3MzIgMTguMTA0MiA0LjAxMzc5IDE3LjkzNzRDMy41MTI2MyAxNy4zNTM1IDMuNTEyNjMgMTYuNjAyNyAzLjkzMDI3IDE2LjAxODdMNC41MTQ5NSAxNS4zNTE0QzQuNDMxNDMgMTUuMTg0NSA0LjQzMTQzIDE1LjEwMTEgNC4zNDc5IDE0LjkzNDNMMy40MjkxMSAxNC43Njc0QzIuNzYwODkgMTQuNjg0IDIuMjU5NzMgMTQuMTgzNSAyLjA5MjY4IDEzLjQzMjdDMi4wMDkxNSAxMy4xODI0IDIuMDkyNjggMTAuNDI5NiAyLjA5MjY4IDEwLjQyOTZDMi4xNzYyMSA5Ljc2MjIyIDIuNjc3MzcgOS4yNjE3IDMuMzQ1NTggOS4wOTQ4Nkw0LjM0NzkgOC45MjgwMkM0LjQzMTQzIDguODQ0NiA0LjQzMTQzIDguNzYxMTggNC41MTQ5NSA4LjU5NDM0TDQuMDEzNzkgNy45MjY5N0MzLjU5NjE2IDcuNDI2NDUgMy41OTYxNiA2LjY3NTY3IDQuMDEzNzkgNi4wOTE3M0M0LjAxMzc5IDYuMDkxNzMgNS45MzQ5MSA0LjA4OTY0IDYuMTAxOTYgNC4wMDYyMkM2LjY4NjY1IDMuNTA1NyA3LjQzODM5IDMuNTA1NyA4LjAyMzA3IDMuOTIyOEw4LjY5MTI5IDQuNTA2NzVDOC44NTgzNCA0LjQyMzMzIDguOTQxODcgNC40MjMzMyA5LjEwODkyIDQuMzM5OTFMOS4yNzU5NyAzLjQyMjI4QzkuMzU5NSAyLjc1NDkyIDkuODYwNjYgMi4yNTQ0IDEwLjYxMjQgMi4wODc1NkMxMC44NjMgMi4wMDQxNCAxMy4yODUzIDIuMDA0MTQgMTMuNTM1OCAyLjA4NzU2SDEzLjYxOTRDMTQuMjg3NiAyLjE3MDk4IDE0Ljc4ODcgMi42NzE1IDE0Ljk1NTggMy4zMzg4NkwxNS4xMjI4IDQuMzM5OTFDMTUuMjA2NCA0LjQyMzMzIDE1LjI4OTkgNC41MDY3NSAxNS40NTcgNC41MDY3NUwxNi4xMjUyIDQuMDA2MjJDMTYuNjI2MyAzLjU4OTEyIDE3LjM3ODEgMy41ODkxMiAxNy45NjI4IDQuMDA2MjJDMTcuOTYyOCA0LjAwNjIyIDE5Ljk2NzQgNS45MjQ4OSAyMC4wNTA5IDYuMDkxNzNDMjAuNTUyMSA2LjY3NTY3IDIwLjU1MjEgNy40MjY0NSAyMC4xMzQ0IDguMDEwNEwxOS42MzMzIDguNjc3NzZDMTkuNzE2OCA4Ljg0NDYgMTkuNzE2OCA5LjAxMTQ0IDE5LjgwMDMgOS4wOTQ4NkwyMC43MTkxIDkuMjYxN0MyMS4zODczIDkuMzQ1MTIgMjEuOTcyIDkuOTI5MDYgMjIuMDU1NiAxMC41OTY0VjEzLjU5OTZDMjEuOTcyIDE0LjI2NjkgMjEuNDcwOSAxNC43Njc0IDIwLjgwMjcgMTQuOTM0M0wxOS44MDAzIDE1LjEwMTFDMTkuNzE2OCAxNS4yNjggMTkuNzE2OCAxNS4zNTE0IDE5LjYzMzMgMTUuNTE4MkwyMC4yMTggMTYuMjY5QzIwLjYzNTYgMTYuNzY5NSAyMC42MzU2IDE3LjUyMDMgMjAuMjE4IDE4LjEwNDJMMTguMDQ2MyAyMC4yNzMyQzE3LjQ2MTYgMjAuNjkwMyAxNi43MDk5IDIwLjY5MDMgMTYuMjA4NyAyMC4yNzMyTDE1LjM3MzQgMTkuNjA1OEMxNS4yMDY0IDE5LjY4OTIgMTUuMTIyOCAxOS42ODkyIDE0Ljk1NTggMTkuNzcyNkwxNC43ODg3IDIwLjY5MDNDMTQuNzA1MiAyMS4zNTc2IDE0LjEyMDUgMjEuOTQxNiAxMy40NTIzIDIyLjAyNUgxMC41Mjg5VjIxLjk0MTZaTTExLjUzMTIgMjAuMzU2NkMxMS44NjUzIDIwLjM1NjYgMTIuMTk5NCAyMC4zNTY2IDEyLjQ1IDIwLjM1NjZDMTIuODY3NiAyMC4zNTY2IDEzLjIwMTcgMjAuMDIyOSAxMy4yODUzIDE5LjYwNThMMTMuMzY4OCAxOC45Mzg0QzEzLjM2ODggMTguNjg4MiAxMy42MTk0IDE4LjQzNzkgMTMuODY5OSAxOC4yNzExTDE1LjEyMjggMTcuNzcwNkMxNS4zNzM0IDE3LjY4NzEgMTUuNzA3NSAxNy42ODcxIDE1Ljk1ODEgMTcuODU0TDE2LjU0MjggMTguMjcxMUMxNi44NzY5IDE4LjUyMTMgMTcuMzc4MSAxOC41MjEzIDE3LjYyODYgMTguMTg3N0MxNy43OTU3IDE4LjAyMDggMTguMDQ2MyAxNy43NzA2IDE4LjI5NjkgMTcuNTIwM0MxOC41NDc0IDE3LjE4NjYgMTguNjMxIDE2Ljc2OTUgMTguMzgwNCAxNi40MzU4TDE3Ljg3OTIgMTYuMDE4N0MxNy43MTIyIDE1Ljc2ODUgMTcuNjI4NiAxNS40MzQ4IDE3Ljc5NTcgMTUuMTg0NUwxOC4yOTY5IDE0LjAxNjdDMTguMzgwNCAxMy43NjY0IDE4LjYzMSAxMy41OTk2IDE4Ljk2NTEgMTMuNTE2MUwxOS42MzMzIDEzLjQzMjdDMjAuMDUwOSAxMy4zNDkzIDIwLjM4NSAxMy4wMTU2IDIwLjM4NSAxMi41OTg1QzIwLjM4NSAxMi4yNjQ4IDIwLjM4NSAxMS45MzExIDIwLjM4NSAxMS42ODA5QzIwLjM4NSAxMS4yNjM4IDIwLjA1MDkgMTAuOTMwMSAxOS42MzMzIDEwLjg0NjdMMTguOTY1MSAxMC43NjMzQzE4LjcxNDUgMTAuNzYzMyAxOC40NjM5IDEwLjUxMyAxOC4yOTY5IDEwLjI2MjdMMTcuNzk1NyA5LjAxMTQ0QzE3LjcxMjIgOC43NjExOCAxNy43MTIyIDguNDI3NSAxNy44NzkyIDguMTc3MjRMMTguMjk2OSA3LjU5MzI5QzE4LjU0NzQgNy4yNTk2MSAxOC41NDc0IDYuODQyNTEgMTguMjEzMyA2LjUwODgzQzE4LjA0NjMgNi4zNDE5OSAxNy43OTU3IDYuMDkxNzMgMTcuNTQ1MSA1Ljg0MTQ3QzE3LjIxMSA1LjUwNzc5IDE2Ljc5MzQgNS41MDc3OSAxNi40NTkzIDUuNzU4MDVMMTYuMDQxNiA2LjE3NTE1QzE1Ljc5MTEgNi4zNDE5OSAxNS40NTcgNi40MjU0MSAxNS4yMDY0IDYuMjU4NTdMMTQuMDM3IDUuNzU4MDVDMTMuNzg2NCA1LjY3NDYzIDEzLjYxOTQgNS40MjQzNyAxMy41MzU4IDUuMDkwNjlMMTMuMzY4OCA0LjUwNjc1QzEzLjI4NTMgNC4wODk2NCAxMi45NTExIDMuNzU1OTYgMTIuNTMzNSAzLjc1NTk2QzEyLjE5OTQgMy43NTU5NiAxMS44NjUzIDMuNzU1OTYgMTEuNjE0NyAzLjc1NTk2QzExLjE5NzEgMy43NTU5NiAxMC44NjMgNC4wODk2NCAxMC43Nzk1IDQuNTA2NzVMMTAuNjk1OSA1LjE3NDExQzEwLjY5NTkgNS40MjQzNyAxMC40NDUzIDUuNjc0NjMgMTAuMTk0OCA1Ljg0MTQ3TDkuMDI1MzkgNi4yNTg1N0M4LjY5MTI5IDYuNDI1NDEgOC40NDA3MSA2LjM0MTk5IDguMTkwMTMgNi4xNzUxNUw3LjYwNTQ0IDUuNzU4MDVDNy4yNzEzMyA1LjUwNzc5IDYuNzcwMTcgNS41MDc3OSA2LjUxOTU5IDUuODQxNDdDNi4yNjkwMSA2LjAwODMxIDYuMTAxOTYgNi4yNTg1NyA1Ljg1MTM4IDYuNDI1NDFDNS42MDA4IDYuNzU5MDkgNS41MTcyNyA3LjE3NjE5IDUuODUxMzggNy41MDk4N0w2LjE4NTQ5IDguMDkzODJDNi4zNTI1NCA4LjM0NDA4IDYuNDM2MDcgOC42Nzc3NiA2LjI2OTAxIDguOTI4MDJMNS43Njc4NSAxMC4wOTU5QzUuNjg0MzMgMTAuMzQ2MiA1LjQzMzc1IDEwLjUxMyA1LjA5OTY0IDEwLjU5NjRMNC40MzE0MyAxMC42Nzk4QzQuMDEzNzkgMTAuNzYzMyAzLjY3OTY5IDExLjA5NjkgMy42Nzk2OSAxMS41MTRDMy42Nzk2OSAxMS44NDc3IDMuNjc5NjkgMTIuMTgxNCAzLjY3OTY5IDEyLjQzMTdDMy42Nzk2OSAxMi44NDg4IDQuMDEzNzkgMTMuMTgyNSA0LjQzMTQzIDEzLjI2NTlMNS4wOTk2NCAxMy4zNDkzQzUuMzUwMjIgMTMuMzQ5MyA1LjYwMDggMTMuNTk5NiA1Ljc2Nzg1IDEzLjg0OThMNi4yNjkwMSAxNS4xMDExQzYuMzUyNTQgMTUuMzUxNCA2LjM1MjU0IDE1LjY4NTEgNi4xODU0OSAxNS45MzUzTDUuNzY3ODUgMTYuNTE5M0M1LjUxNzI3IDE2Ljg1MjkgNS41MTcyNyAxNy4zNTM1IDUuODUxMzggMTcuNjAzN0M2LjAxODQzIDE3Ljc3MDYgNi4yNjkwMSAxOC4wMjA4IDYuNTE5NTkgMTguMjcxMUM2Ljg1MzcgMTguNTIxMyA3LjI3MTMzIDE4LjYwNDggNy42MDU0NCAxOC4zNTQ1TDguMDIzMDcgMTcuODU0QzguMjczNjUgMTcuNjg3MSA4LjYwNzc2IDE3LjYwMzcgOC44NTgzNCAxNy43NzA2TDEwLjAyNzcgMTguMjcxMUMxMC4yNzgzIDE4LjM1NDUgMTAuNDQ1MyAxOC42MDQ4IDEwLjUyODkgMTguOTM4NEwxMC42MTI0IDE5LjYwNThDMTAuNzc5NSAyMC4wMjI5IDExLjExMzYgMjAuMzU2NiAxMS41MzEyIDIwLjM1NjZaTTE4Ljc5OCA2LjkyNTkzQzE4Ljc5OCA2LjkyNTkzIDE4Ljc5OCA3LjAwOTM1IDE4Ljc5OCA2LjkyNTkzVjYuOTI1OTNaIiAvPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMi4wMzI0IDE3LjAxOThDOS4yNzU5NyAxNy4wMTk4IDcuMDIwNzUgMTQuNzY3NSA3LjAyMDc1IDEyLjAxNDZDNy4wMjA3NSA5LjI2MTcyIDkuMjc1OTcgNy4wMDkzNyAxMi4wMzI0IDcuMDA5MzdDMTQuNzg4NyA3LjAwOTM3IDE3LjA0NCA5LjI2MTcyIDE3LjA0NCAxMi4wMTQ2QzE3LjA0NCAxNC43Njc1IDE0Ljc4ODcgMTcuMDE5OCAxMi4wMzI0IDE3LjAxOThaTTEyLjAzMjQgOC42Nzc3N0MxMC4xOTQ4IDguNjc3NzcgOC42OTEyOSAxMC4xNzkzIDguNjkxMjkgMTIuMDE0NkM4LjY5MTI5IDEzLjg0OTggMTAuMTk0OCAxNS4zNTE0IDEyLjAzMjQgMTUuMzUxNEMxMy44Njk5IDE1LjM1MTQgMTUuMzczNCAxMy44NDk4IDE1LjM3MzQgMTIuMDE0NkMxNS4zNzM0IDEwLjE3OTMgMTMuODY5OSA4LjY3Nzc3IDEyLjAzMjQgOC42Nzc3N1oiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
    Settings**.
3.  Under **Project settings**, click **Integrations**.
4.  Click **+ Add integration**.
5.  Under **Bitbucket**, click **+ Add**.
6.  Complete the form with:
    -   The repository in the form `owner/repository`
    -   The [key and secret you generated](#1-create-an-oauth-consumer)
7.  Check that the other options match what you want.
8.  Click **Add integration**.

In both the CLI and Console, you can choose from the following options:
\| CLI flag \| Default \| Description \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\| \| \`fetch-branches\` \| \`true\` \| Whether to mirror and update
branches on Upsun and create inactive environments from them. When
enabled, merging on a Upsun isn\'t possible. That is, merging
environments must be done on the source repository rather than on the
Upsun project. See note below for details related to this flag and
synchronizing code from a parent environment. \| \| \`prune-branches\`
\| \`true\` \| Whether to delete branches from Upsun that don't exist in
the Bitbucket repository. When enabled, branching (creating
environments) must be done on the source repository rather than on the
Upsun project. Branches created on Upsun that are not on the source
repository will not persist and will be quickly pruned. Automatically
disabled when fetching branches is disabled. \| \|
\`build-pull-requests\` \| \`true\` \| Whether to track all pull
requests and create active environments from them, which builds the pull
request. \| \| \`resync-pull-requests\` \| \`false\` \| Whether to sync
data from the parent environment on every push to a pull request. \| \|
\`resources-init\` \| \`false\` \| To \[specify a resource
initialization
strategy\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md#first-deployment) for new
containers. Once set, the strategy applies to \*\*all\*\* the
deployments you launch through your source integration. See more
information on \[available resource initialization
strategies\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy).
\|

### Note

To keep your repository clean and avoid performance issues, make sure
you enable both the `fetch-branches` and `prune-branches` options.

\### 3. Validate the integration Verify that your integration is
functioning properly \[using the
CLI\](../overview.md#validate-integrations): \`\`\`bash upsun
integration:validate \`\`\` \#### Add the webhook manually If the
integration was added with the correct permissions, the necessary
webhook is added automatically. If you see a message that the webhook
wasn\'t added, add one manually. To configure a webhook on a Bitbucket
repository, you need to have Admin \[user
permissions\](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/manage-webhooks/). 1.
Get the webhook URL by running this command: \`upsun integration:get
\--property hook_url\`. 1. Copy the returned URL. 1. Follow the
\[Bitbucket instructions to create a
webhook\](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/manage-webhooks/#Create-webhooks)
using the URL you copied. Make sure to update the triggers to include
all pull request events except comments and approval. You can now start
pushing code, creating new branches, and opening pull requests directly
in your Bitbucket repository. Your Upsun environments are automatically
created and updated. \## Bitbucket Server \### 1. Generate a token To
integrate your Upsun project with a repository on a Bitbucket Server
instance, you first need to create an access token associated with your
account. \[Generate a
token\](https://confluence.atlassian.com/display/BitbucketServer/HTTP+access+tokens).
and give it at least read access to projects and admin access to
repositories. Copy the token. \### 2. Enable the Server integration

To enable the integration, use either the CLI or the Console.

:::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following command:

`upsun integration:add \ --project PROJECT_ID \ --type bitbucket_server \ --repository OWNER/REPOSITORY \ --username BITBUCKET_USERNAME \ --token BITBUCKET_SERVER_ACCESS_TOKEN \ --base-url BITBUCKET_SERVER_URL `

-   `PROJECT_ID` is the ID of your Upsun project.
-   `OWNER/REPOSITORY` is the name of the repository in Bitbucket
    server.
-   `BITBUCKET_SERVER_ACCESS_TOKEN` is the [token you
    generated](#1-generate-a-token).
-   `BITBUCKET_SERVER_URL` is the base URL for your Bitbucket server.

For example, if your repository is located at
`https://example.com/upsun/upsun-docs`, the command is similar to the
following:

`upsun integration:add \ --project abcdefgh1234567 \ --type bitbucket_server \ --repository upsun/upsun-docs \ --username user@example.com \ --token abc123 `

1.  Select the project where you want to enable the integration.

2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.

3.  Under **Project settings**, click **Integrations**.

4.  Click **+ Add integration**.

5.  Under **Bitbucket server**, click **+ Add**.

6.  Complete the form with:

    -   Your server URL
    -   Your Bitbucket username
    -   The [token you generated](#1-generate-a-token)
    -   The Bitbucket server project name
    -   The repository in the form `owner/repository`

7.  Check that the other options match what you want.

8.  Click **Add integration**.

In both the CLI and Console, you can choose from the following options:

  CLI flag                            Default   Description
  ----------------------------------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `fetch-branches`                    `true`    Whether to mirror and update branches on Upsun and create inactive environments from them.
  `prune-branches`                    `true`    Whether to delete branches from Upsun that don't exist in the Bitbucket server repository. Automatically disabled when fetching branches is disabled.
  `build-pull-requests`               `true`    Whether to track all pull requests and create active environments from them, which builds the pull request.
  `pull-requests-clone-parent-data`   `true`    Whether to clone data from the parent environment when creating a pull request environment.

To keep your repository clean and avoid performance issues, make sure
you enable both the `fetch-branches` and `prune-branches` options.

\### 3. Validate the integration Verify that your integration is
functioning properly \[using the
CLI\](../overview.md#validate-integrations): \`\`\`bash upsun
integration:validate \`\`\` \#### Add the webhook manually If the
integration was added with the correct permissions, the necessary
webhook is added automatically. If you see a message that the webhook
wasn\'t added, add one manually. To configure a webhook on a Bitbucket
repository, you need to have Admin \[user
permissions\](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/manage-webhooks/). 1.
Get the webhook URL by running this command: \`upsun integration:get
\--property hook_url\`. 1. Copy the returned URL. 1. Follow the
\[Bitbucket instructions to create a
webhook\](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucketserver076/managing-webhooks-in-bitbucket-server-1026535073.html#ManagingwebhooksinBitbucketServer-creatingwebhooksCreatingwebhooks)
using the URL you copied. Send all events except comments and approval.
You can now start pushing code, creating new branches, and opening pull
requests directly in your Bitbucket repository. Your Upsun environments
are automatically created and updated. \## Environment parent and status
When a \*\*branch\*\* is created in Bitbucket, an environment is created
in Upsun with the default branch as its parent. It starts as an
\[inactive environment\](/glossary.html#inactive-environment) with no
data or services. When a \*\*pull request\*\* is opened in Bitbucket, an
environment is created in Upsun with the pull request\'s target branch
as its parent. It starts as an \[active
environment\](/glossary.html#active-environment) with a copy of its
parent\'s data. \## Source of truth

When you add an integration, your Bitbucket repository is considered to
be the source of truth for the project. Your Upsun project is only a
mirror of that repository and you can only push commits to Bitbucket.

To clone your code, follow these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   Using Git

Run the following command:

`upsun get PROJECT_ID`

1.  In the Console, open the project you want to clone.
2.  Click **Code**.
3.  Click **Git**.
4.  Run the command you find using Git.

When you do this, you\'re cloning from your integrated Bitbucket
repository, if you have the appropriate access to do so.

\### Sync, fetch, and prune An integration from Bitbucket to Upsun
establishes that: - Bitbucket is the source of truth, where Git
operations occur - Upsun is a mirror of that repository - provisioning
infrastructure according to configuration, and orchestrating
environments according to the branch structure of the Bitbucket
repository Actions that take place on Upsun don\'t affect commits on
Bitbucket. Because of this, the Bitbucket integration enables both
\`fetch-branches\` (track branches on Bitbucket) and \`prune-branches\`
(delete branches that don\'t exist on Bitbucket) by default. You can
change these settings but it is recommend to keep them. When enabled by
default, you are limited by design as to what actions can be performed
within the context of a Upsun project with a Bitbucket integration: \|
Action \| Observation \| Recommendation \| \|
:\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| :\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
:\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| Branch from parent \| Running
\[\`environment:branch\`\](/administration/cli/reference#environmentbranch)
with the CLI, or selecting \*\*Branch\*\* in Console produces a new
child environment, but it\'s deleted shortly after automatically. \|
Contribute to the Bitbucket repository itself by creating a branch and
pull request. When the PR has been opened, a new environment will be
provisioned for it. \| \| Merge in parent \| Running
\[\`environment:merge\`\](/administration/cli/reference#environmentmerge)
with the CLI fails locally, and the \*\*Merge\*\* option in Console is
not clickable. \| Review and merge pull requests and/or branches on the
Bitbucket repository. \| \| Merge into child (sync code) \| Running
\[\`environment:synchronize\`\](/administration/cli/reference#environmentsynchronize)
with the CLI fails locally, and the \*\*Sync\*\* option in Console
won\'t allow me to include \`code\` in that sync. \| Perform the merge
locally from a matching branch on Bitbucket. For example, clone the most
recent parent (\`git pull origin parent-branch\`), switch to the pull
request branch (\`git checkout ga-staging\`), and then merge the parent
into the current branch (\`git merge main\`). \| \## Pull request URLs
When a pull request is deployed, the integration reports the primary URL
for the deployed environment. So you get a link to the deployed
environment right in the pull request. If you have multiple routes,
ensure the correct one is reported by \[specifying the primary
route\](/define-routes.html#route-configuration-reference). #Integrate
with GitHub If you have code in a GitHub repository, you might want to
connect it to a Upsun project. This means you can keep your GitHub
workflows and treat the GitHub repository as the source of truth for
your code. Your Upsun project becomes a mirror of your GitHub
repository. This means you shouldn\'t push code directly to Upsun. Any
changes you push directly get overwritten by the integration when
changes happen in the GitHub repository. When you set up an integration
with GitHub, it automates the following processes for you: - Creating a
new environment when a branch is created or a pull request is opened. -
Rebuilding the environment when new code is pushed to GitHub. - Deleting
the environment when a pull request is merged. \## Before you begin To
manage source integrations, you need to be a \[project
admin\](../../administration/users.md). You also need a GitHub
repository with working code. \## 1. Generate a token To integrate your
Upsun project with an existing GitHub repository, you need to \[generate
a new token\](https://github.com/settings/tokens/new). You can generate
a classic personal access token, or a \[fine-grained personal access
token\](https://github.blog/changelog/2022-10-18-introducing-fine-grained-personal-access-tokens/)
for even greater control over the permissions you grant. For the
integration to work, your GitHub user needs to have permission to push
code to the repository. When you set up or update an integration, it
also needs permission to manage its webhooks. This means your user needs
to be a repository admin to create the integration. You can remove this
permission after setup. Make sure you give your token a description. If
you\'re generating a classic personal access token, ensure the token has
the appropriate scopes based on what you want to do: \| Scope \| Purpose
\| \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\| \| \`admin:repo_hook\` \| To create webhooks for events in
repositories. Always needed. \| \| \`public_repo\` \| To integrate with
public repositories. \| \| \`repo\` \| To integrate with your private
repositories. \| \| \`repo\` and \`read:org\` \| To integrate with
private repositories in organizations you belong to. \| If you\'re
generating a fine-grained personal access token, ensure the token has
the right \[repository
permissions\](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/overview/permissions-required-for-fine-grained-personal-access-tokens?apiVersion=2022-11-28)
for the integration to work: \| Permission \| Access level \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| \`Commit statuses\` \| Read and write \| \| \`Contents\` \| Read and
write \| \| \`Metadata\` \| Read-only \| \| \`Pull request\` \| Read and
write \| \| \`Webhooks\` \| Read and write \| After you\'ve set the
needed scopes or permissions, generate and copy your token. \## 2.
Enable the integration To enable the integration, use either the
\[CLI\](/administration/cli.html) or the
\[Console\](/administration/web.html).

:::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following command:

`upsun integration:add \ --project PROJECT_ID \ --type github \ --repository OWNER/REPOSITORY \ --token GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN \ --base-url GITHUB_URL`

-   `PROJECT_ID` is the ID of your Upsun project.
-   `OWNER/REPOSITORY` is the name of your repository in GitHub.
-   `GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` is the [token you
    generated](#1-generate-a-token).
-   `GITHUB_URL` is the base URL for your GitHub server if you
    self-host. If you use the public `https://github.com`, omit the
    `--base-url` flag when running the command.

For example, if your repository is located at
`https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs`, the command is similar
to the following:

`upsun integration:add \ --project abcdefgh1234567 \ --type github \ --repository platformsh/platformsh-docs \ --token abc123`

1.  Select the project where you want to enable the integration.
2.  Click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    Settings**.
3.  Under **Project settings**, click **Integrations**.
4.  Click **+ Add integration**.
5.  Under **GitHub**, click **+ Add**.
6.  Add the [token you generated](#1-generate-a-token).
7.  Optional: If your GitHub project isn't hosted at `github.com`, enter
    your GitHub custom domain.
8.  Click **Continue**.
9.  Choose the repository to use for the project.
10. Check that the other options match what you want.
11. Click **Add integration**.

In both the CLI and Console, you can choose from the following options:
\| CLI flag \| Default \| Description \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\| \| \`fetch-branches\` \| \`true\` \| Whether to mirror and update
branches on Upsun and create inactive environments from them. When
enabled, merging on a Upsun isn\'t possible. That is, merging
environments must be done on the source repository rather than on the
Upsun project. See note below for details related to this flag and
synchronizing code from a parent environment. \| \| \`prune-branches\`
\| \`true\` \| Whether to delete branches from Upsun that don't exist in
the GitHub repository. When enabled, branching (creating environments)
must be done on the source repository rather than on the Upsun project.
Branches created on Upsun that are not on the source repository will not
persist and will be quickly pruned. Automatically disabled when fetching
branches is disabled. \| \| \`build-pull-requests\` \| \`true\` \|
Whether to track all pull requests and create active environments from
them, which builds the pull request. \| \| \`build-draft-pull-requests\`
\| \`true\` \| Whether to also track and build draft pull requests.
Automatically disabled when pull requests aren't built. \| \|
\`pull-requests-clone-parent-data\` \| \`true\` \| Whether to clone data
from the parent environment when creating a pull request environment. \|
\| \`build-pull-requests-post-merge\`\| \`false\` \| Whether to build
what would be the result of merging each pull request. Turning it on
forces rebuilds any time something is merged to the target branch. \| \|
\`resources-init\` \| \`false\` \| To \[specify a resource
initialization
strategy\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md#first-deployment) for new
containers. Once set, the strategy applies to \*\*all\*\* the
deployments you launch through your source integration. See more
information on \[available resource initialization
strategies\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy).
\| To \[keep your repository
clean\](/learn/bestpractices/clean-repository) and avoid performance
issues, make sure you enable both the \`fetch-branches\` and
\`prune-branches\` options. \## 3. Validate the integration Verify that
your integration is functioning properly \[using the
CLI\](../overview.md#validate-integrations): \`\`\`bash upsun
integration:validate \`\`\` \### Add the webhook manually If the
integration was added with the correct permissions, the necessary
webhook is added automatically. If you see a message that the webhook
wasn\'t added, add one manually. To configure a webhook on a GitHub
repository, you need to have Admin \[user
permissions\](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-user-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/repository-roles-for-an-organization#permissions-for-each-role). 1.
Get the webhook URL by running this command: \`upsun integration:get
\--property hook_url\`. 1. Copy the returned URL. 1. In your GitHub
repository, click \*\*Settings\*\* \> \*\*Webhooks\*\* \> \*\*Add
webhook\*\*. 1. In the \*\*Payload URL\*\* field, paste the URL you
copied. 1. For the content type, select \*\*application/json\*\*. 1.
Select \*\*Send me everything\*\*. 1. Click \*\*Add webhook\*\*. You can
now start pushing code, creating new branches, and opening pull requests
directly in your GitHub repository. Your Upsun environments are
automatically created and updated. \## Environment parent and status
When a \*\*branch\*\* is created in GitHub, an environment is created in
Upsun with the default branch as its parent. It starts as an \[inactive
environment\](/glossary.html#inactive-environment) with no data or
services. When a \*\*pull request\*\* is opened in GitHub, an
environment is created in Upsun with the pull request\'s target branch
as its parent. It starts as an \[active
environment\](/glossary.html#active-environment) with a copy of its
parent\'s data. \## Source of truth

When you add an integration, your GitHub repository is considered to be
the source of truth for the project. Your Upsun project is only a mirror
of that repository and you can only push commits to GitHub.

To clone your code, follow these steps:

::::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   Using Git

Run the following command:

`upsun get PROJECT_ID`

1.  In the Console, open the project you want to clone.
2.  Click **Code**.
3.  Click **Git**.
4.  Run the command you find using Git.

When you do this, you\'re cloning from your integrated GitHub
repository, if you have the appropriate access to do so.

\### Sync, fetch, and prune An integration from GitHub to Upsun
establishes that: - GitHub is the source of truth, where Git operations
occur - Upsun is a mirror of that repository - provisioning
infrastructure according to configuration, and orchestrating
environments according to the branch structure of the GitHub repository
Actions that take place on Upsun don\'t affect commits on GitHub.
Because of this, the GitHub integration enables both \`fetch-branches\`
(track branches on GitHub) and \`prune-branches\` (delete branches that
don\'t exist on GitHub) by default. You can change these settings but it
is recommend to keep them. When enabled by default, you are limited by
design as to what actions can be performed within the context of a Upsun
project with a GitHub integration: \| Action \| Observation \|
Recommendation \| \| :\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
:\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| :\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| Branch from
parent \| Running
\[\`environment:branch\`\](/administration/cli/reference#environmentbranch)
with the CLI, or selecting \*\*Branch\*\* in Console produces a new
child environment, but it\'s deleted shortly after automatically. \|
Contribute to the GitHub repository itself by creating a branch and pull
request. When the PR has been opened, a new environment will be
provisioned for it. \| \| Merge in parent \| Running
\[\`environment:merge\`\](/administration/cli/reference#environmentmerge)
with the CLI fails locally, and the \*\*Merge\*\* option in Console is
not clickable. \| Review and merge pull requests and/or branches on the
GitHub repository. \| \| Merge into child (sync code) \| Running
\[\`environment:synchronize\`\](/administration/cli/reference#environmentsynchronize)
with the CLI fails locally, and the \*\*Sync\*\* option in Console
won\'t allow me to include \`code\` in that sync. \| Perform the merge
locally from a matching branch on GitHub. For example, clone the most
recent parent (\`git pull origin parent-branch\`), switch to the pull
request branch (\`git checkout ga-staging\`), and then merge the parent
into the current branch (\`git merge main\`). \| \## Pull request URLs
When a pull request is deployed, the integration reports the primary URL
for the deployed environment. So you get a link to the deployed
environment right in the pull request. If you have multiple routes,
ensure the correct one is reported by \[specifying the primary
route\](/define-routes.html#route-configuration-reference). #Integrate
with GitLab If you have code in a GitLab repository, you might want to
connect it to a Upsun project. This means you can keep your GitLab
workflows and treat the GitLab repository as the source of truth for
your code. Your Upsun project becomes a mirror of your GitLab
repository. This means you shouldn\'t push code directly to Upsun. Any
changes you push directly get overwritten by the integration when
changes happen in the GitLab repository. When you set up an integration
with GitLab, it automates the following processes for you: - Creating a
new environment when a branch is created or a merge request is opened. -
Rebuilding the environment when new code is pushed to GitLab. - Deleting
the environment when a merge request is merged. \## Before you begin To
manage source integrations, you need to be a \[project
admin\](../../administration/users.md). You also need a GitLab
repository with working code. \## 1. Generate a token To integrate your
Upsun project with an existing GitLab repository, generate a \[project
access
token\](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html#create-a-project-access-token).
Ensure the token has the following scopes: - \`api\` to access your
API - \`read_repository\` to read the repository For the integration to
work, your GitLab user needs push access to the repository and to
configure a webhook on a GitLab repository, you need to have Maintainer
or Owner user permissions. Copy the token.

### Note

To create a project access token, you need to have a sufficient GitLab
license tier. If you don't see **Access Tokens** under **Settings**,
upgrade your GitLab tier. Alternatively, you can create a personal
access token, but that's attached to a specific user rather than the
project as a whole and grants more permissions.

\## 2. Enable the integration To enable the integration, use either the
\[CLI\](/administration/cli.html) or the
\[Console\](/administration/web.html).

:::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

Run the following command:

`upsun integration:add \ --project PROJECT_ID \ --type gitlab \ --server-project PROJECT/SUBPROJECT \ --token GITLAB_ACCESS_TOKEN \ --base-url GITLAB_URL`

-   `PROJECT_ID` is the ID of your Upsun project.
-   `PROJECT/SUBPROJECT` is the name of your repository in GitLab.
-   `GITLAB_ACCESS_TOKEN` is the [token you
    generated](#1-generate-a-token).
-   `GITLAB_URL` is the base URL for your GitLab server if you
    self-host. If you use the public `https://gitlab.com`, omit the
    `--base-url` flag when running the command.

For example, if your repository is located at
`https://gitlab.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs`, the command is similar
to the following:

`upsun integration:add \ --project abcdefgh1234567 \ --type gitlab \ --server-project platformsh/platformsh-docs \ --token abc123`

1.  Select the project where you want to enable the integration.
2.  Click
    **![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    Settings**.
3.  Under **Project settings**, click **Integrations**.
4.  Click **+ Add integration**.
5.  Under **GitLab**, click **+ Add**.
6.  Add the [token you generated](#1-generate-a-token).
7.  Optional: If your GitLab project isn't hosted at `gitlab.com`, enter
    your GitLab custom domain.
8.  Click **Continue**.
9.  Choose the repository to use for the project.
10. Check that the other options match what you want.
11. Click **Add integration**.

In both the CLI and Console, you can choose from the following options:
\| CLI flag \| Default \| Description \| \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
\| \| \`fetch-branches\` \| \`true\` \| Whether to mirror and update
branches on Upsun and create inactive environments from them. When
enabled, merging on a Upsun isn\'t possible. That is, merging
environments must be done on the source repository rather than on the
Upsun project. See note below for details related to this flag and
synchronizing code from a parent environment. \| \| \`prune-branches\`
\| \`true\` \| Whether to delete branches from Upsun that don't exist in
the GitLab repository. When enabled, branching (creating environments)
must be done on the source repository rather than on the Upsun project.
Branches created on Upsun that are not on the source repository will not
persist and will be quickly pruned. Automatically disabled when fetching
branches is disabled. \| \| \`build-merge-requests\` \| \`true\` \|
Whether to track all merge requests and create active environments from
them, which builds the merge request. \| \| \`build-wip-merge-requests\`
\| \`true\` \| Whether to also track and build draft merge requests.
Automatically disabled when merge requests aren't built. \| \|
\`merge-requests-clone-parent-data\` \| \`true\` \| Whether to clone
data from the parent environment when creating a merge request
environment. \| \| \`resources-init\` \| \`false\` \| To \[specify a
resource initialization
strategy\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md#first-deployment) for new
containers. Once set, the strategy applies to \*\*all\*\* the
deployments you launch through your source integration. See more
information on \[available resource initialization
strategies\](/manage-resources/resource-init.md#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy).
To \[keep your repository clean\](/learn/bestpractices/clean-repository)
and avoid performance issues, make sure you enable both the
\`fetch-branches\` and \`prune-branches\` options. \## 3. Validate the
integration Verify that your integration is functioning properly \[using
the CLI\](../overview.md#validate-integrations): \`\`\`bash upsun
integration:validate \`\`\` \### Add the webhook manually If the
integration was added with the correct permissions, the necessary
webhook is added automatically. If you see a message that the webhook
wasn\'t added, add one manually. To configure a webhook on a GitLab
repository, you need to have Maintainer or Owner \[user
permissions\](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/permissions.html). 1. Get
the webhook URL by running this command: \`upsun integration:get
\--property hook_url\`. 1. Copy the returned URL. 1. In your GitLab
repository, click \*\*Settings\*\* \> \*\*Webhooks\*\*. 1. In the
\*\*URL\*\* field, paste the URL you copied. 1. Under \*\*Trigger\*\*,
select \*\*Push events\*\* and \*\*Merge request events\*\*. 1. Click
\*\*Add webhook\*\*. You can now start pushing code, creating new
branches, and opening merge requests directly in your GitLab repository.
Your Upsun environments are automatically created and updated. \##
Environment parent and status When a \*\*branch\*\* is created in
GitLab, an environment is created in Upsun with the default branch as
its parent. It starts as an \[inactive
environment\](/glossary.html#inactive-environment) with no data or
services. When a \*\*merge request\*\* is opened in GitLab, an
environment is created in Upsun with the merge request\'s target branch
as its parent. It starts as an \[active
environment\](/glossary.html#active-environment) with a copy of its
parent\'s data. \## Source of truth

When you add an integration, your GitLab repository is considered to be
the source of truth for the project. Your Upsun project is only a mirror
of that repository and you can only push commits to GitLab.

To clone your code, follow these steps:

::::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   Using Git

Run the following command:

`upsun get PROJECT_ID`

1.  In the Console, open the project you want to clone.
2.  Click **Code**.
3.  Click **Git**.
4.  Run the command you find using Git.

When you do this, you\'re cloning from your integrated GitLab
repository, if you have the appropriate access to do so.

\### Sync, fetch, and prune An integration from GitLab to Upsun
establishes that: - GitLab is the source of truth, where Git operations
occur - Upsun is a mirror of that repository - provisioning
infrastructure according to configuration, and orchestrating
environments according to the branch structure of the GitLab repository
Actions that take place on Upsun don\'t affect commits on GitLab.
Because of this, the GitLab integration enables both \`fetch-branches\`
(track branches on GitLab) and \`prune-branches\` (delete branches that
don\'t exist on GitLab) by default. You can change these settings but it
is recommend to keep them. When enabled by default, you are limited by
design as to what actions can be performed within the context of a Upsun
project with a GitLab integration: \| Action \| Observation \|
Recommendation \| \| :\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
:\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| :\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| Branch from
parent \| Running
\[\`environment:branch\`\](/administration/cli/reference#environmentbranch)
with the CLI, or selecting \*\*Branch\*\* in Console produces a new
child environment, but it\'s deleted shortly after automatically. \|
Contribute to the GitLab repository itself by creating a branch and pull
request. When the PR has been opened, a new environment will be
provisioned for it. \| \| Merge in parent \| Running
\[\`environment:merge\`\](/administration/cli/reference#environmentmerge)
with the CLI fails locally, and the \*\*Merge\*\* option in Console is
not clickable. \| Review and merge pull requests and/or branches on the
GitLab repository. \| \| Merge into child (sync code) \| Running
\[\`environment:synchronize\`\](/administration/cli/reference#environmentsynchronize)
with the CLI fails locally, and the \*\*Sync\*\* option in Console
won\'t allow me to include \`code\` in that sync. \| Perform the merge
locally from a matching branch on GitLab. For example, clone the most
recent parent (\`git pull origin parent-branch\`), switch to the pull
request branch (\`git checkout ga-staging\`), and then merge the parent
into the current branch (\`git merge main\`). \| \## Merge request URLs
When a merge request is deployed, the integration reports the primary
URL for the deployed environment. So you get a link to the deployed
environment right in the merge request. If you have multiple routes,
ensure the correct one is reported by \[specifying the primary
route\](/define-routes.html#route-configuration-reference). #Lisp

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

Upsun supports building and deploying applications written in Lisp using
Common Lisp (the SBCL version) with ASDF and Quick Lisp support. They're
compiled during the Build phase, and support both committed dependencies
and download-on-demand. \## Supported versions You can select the major
and minor version. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes
and the like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest
available patches.

-   3.3
-   3.2
-   3.1
-   3.0

\### Specify the language To use Lisp, specify \`lisp\` as your \[app\'s
\`type\`\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#types):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique
within the project. : type: \'lisp:\' \`\`\` For example: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the
project. myapp: type: \'lisp:2.1\' \`\`\` \## Assumptions Upsun is
making assumptions about your application to provide a more streamlined
experience. These assumptions are the following: - Your \`.asd\` file is
named like your system name. For example \`example.asd\` has
\`(defsystem example \...)\`. Upsun will then run \`(asdf:make
:example)\` on your system to build a binary. If you don\'t want these
assumptions, you can disable this behavior by specifying in your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\`: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type:
\'lisp:2.1\' build: flavor: none \`\`\` \## Dependencies The recommended
way to handle Lisp dependencies on Upsun is using ASDF. Commit a
\`.asd\` file in your repository and the system will automatically
download the dependencies using QuickLisp. \## QuickLisp options If you
wish to change the distributions that QuickLisp is using, you can
specify those as follows, specifying a distribution name, its URL and,
an optional version: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name,
which must be unique within the project. : type: \'lisp:\' runtime:
quicklisp: DISTRIBUTION_NAME: url: \"\...\" version: \"\...\" \`\`\` For
example: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be
unique within the project. myapp: type: \'lisp:2.1\' runtime: quicklisp:
quicklisp: url: \'http://beta.quicklisp.org/dist/quicklisp.txt\'
version: \'2019-07-11\' \`\`\` \## Built-in variables Upsun exposes
relationships and other configuration as \[environment
variables\](../development/variables/\_index.md). To get the \`PORT\`
environment variable (the port on which your web application is supposed
to listen): \`\`\`lisp (parse-integer (uiop:getenv \"PORT\")) \`\`\` \##
Building and running the application Assuming \`example.lisp\` and
\`example.asd\` are present in your repository, the app is automatically
built on push. You can then start it from the \`web.commands.start\`
directive. Note that the start command \_must\_ run in the foreground.
Should the program terminate for any reason it\'s automatically
restarted. In the example below the app sleeps for a very, very long
time. You could also choose to join the thread of your web server, or
use other methods to make sure the program doesn\'t terminate. The
following basic \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file is sufficient to run most
Lisp applications. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: type: \'lisp:2.1\'
web: commands: start: ./example locations: /: allow: false passthru:
true \`\`\` Note that a proxy server is still in front of your app. If
desired, certain paths may be served directly by the router without
hitting your app (for static files, primarily) or you may route all
requests to the Lisp application unconditionally, as in the example
above. \## Accessing Services The services configuration is available in
the environment variable \`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`. To parse them, add
the dependencies to your \`.asd\` file: \`\`\`lisp :depends-on (:jsown
:babel :s-base64) \`\`\` The following is an example of accessing a
PostgreSQL instance: \`\`\`lisp (defun relationships () (jsown:parse
(babel:octets-to-string (with-input-from-string (in (uiop:getenv
\"PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\")) (s-base64:decode-base64-bytes in)))))
\`\`\` Given a relationship defined in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`:

:::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using default endpoints
-   Using explicit endpoints

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: type: 'lisp:2.1' relationships: postgresql:`
.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: type: 'lisp:2.1' relationships: # Please note: Legacy definition of the relationship is still supported: # More information: https://docs.platform.sh/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships postgresql: service: 'postgresql' endpoint: 'postgresql'`
The following would access that relationship, and provide your Lisp
program the credentials to connect to a PostgreSQL instance. Add this to
your \`.asd\` file: \`\`\`lisp :depends-on (:postmodern) \`\`\` Then in
your program you could access the PostgreSQL instance as follows:
\`\`\`lisp (defvar \*pg-spec\* nil) (defun setup-postgresql () (let\*
((pg-relationship (first (jsown:val (relationships) \"postgresql\")))
(database (jsown:val pg-relationship \"path\")) (username (jsown:val
pg-relationship \"username\")) (password (jsown:val pg-relationship
\"password\")) (host (jsown:val pg-relationship \"host\"))) (setf
\*pg-spec\* (list database username password host)))
(postmodern:with-connection \*pg-spec\* (unless (member
\"example_table\" (postmodern:list-tables t) :test #\'string=)
(postmodern:execute \"create table example_table ( a_field TEXT NOT NULL
UNIQUE, another_field TEXT NOT NULL UNIQUE \")))) \`\`\` \## Example The
following is a basic example of a Hunchentoot-based web app (you can
find the corresponding \`.asd\` and Upsun \`.yaml\` files in the
example): \`\`\`lisp (defpackage #:example (:use :hunchentoot :cl-who
:cl) (:export main)) (in-package #:example) (define-easy-handler (greet
:uri \"/hello\") (name) (with-html-output-to-string (s) (htm (:body (:h1
\"hello, \" (str name)))))) (defun main () (let ((acceptor
(make-instance \'easy-acceptor :port (parse-integer (uiop:getenv
\"PORT\"))))) (start acceptor) (sleep most-positive-fixnum))) \`\`\`
Notice how it gets the \`PORT\` from the environment and how it sleeps
at the end, as \`(start acceptor)\` immediately yields and Upsun
requires apps to run in the foreground. #Manage Python versions in
non-Python containers

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

You may need to use a specific version of Python that isn\'t available
in an app container for a different language. For example, a container
might have a long-term support version, while you want the latest
version. In such cases, use the \[Pyenv version
manager\](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) to install the specific
version you want to use. 1. Add your target Python version as a
\[variable\](../../development/variables/\_index.md): \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the
project. myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' variables: env: \# Update for your
desired Python version. PYTHON_VERSION: \"3.11.0\" \`\`\` 2. Add Pyenv
in a \[\`build\`
hook\](../../create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#build-hook):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique
within the project. myapp: type: \'php:8.4\' variables: env: \# Update
for your desired Python version. PYTHON_VERSION: \"3.11.0\" hooks:
build: \| \# Exit the hook on any failure set -e \# Clone Pyenv to the
build cache if not present if \[ ! -d \"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.pyenv\"
\]; then mkdir -p \$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.pyenv git clone
https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv.git \$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.pyenv fi \#
Pyenv environment variables export
PYENV_ROOT=\"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.pyenv\" export
PATH=\"\$PYENV_ROOT/bin:\$PATH\" \# Initialize Pyenv if command -v pyenv
1\>/dev/null 2\>&1; then eval \"\$(pyenv init \--path)\" fi \# Install
desired Python version mkdir -p \$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.pyenv/versions if
\[ ! -d \"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.pyenv/versions/\$PYTHON_VERSION\" \];
then pyenv install \$PYTHON_VERSION fi \# Set global Python version
pyenv global \$PYTHON_VERSION \`\`\` Now your build hook can use the
specified version of Python. You can verify this by running \`python
\--version\`. If you want this Python version to be available in the
runtime environment, follow these steps: 1. Copy Pyenv to your runtime
environment at the end of your build hook: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
\# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the project. myapp:
type: \'php:8.4\' hooks: build: \| \... \# Copy Pyenv directory to
runtime directory cp -R \$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/.pyenv \$PLATFORM_APP_DIR
\# Rehash Pyenv for new (runtime) location
PYENV_ROOT=\"\$PLATFORM_APP_DIR/.pyenv\"
\$PLATFORM_APP_DIR/.pyenv/bin/pyenv rehash \`\`\` 2. Create an
\[\`.environment\`
file\](../../development/variables/set-variables.md#set-variables-via-script):
\`\`\`bash touch .environment \`\`\` 3. Update the PATH for the runtime
environment: \`\`\`yaml {} export
PATH=/app/.pyenv/bin:/app/.pyenv/shims:\$PATH \`\`\` Now the specified
Python version is used in the runtime environment. #MariaDB/MySQL
External Replication In rare cases, it may be useful to maintain a
replica instance of your MySQL/MariaDB database outside of Upsun.
Normally an automated backup is better for short-term usage and a
\`mysqldump\` for longer term storage, but in some cases the data set is
large enough that \`mysqldump\` is prohibitive. In that case, you can
enable external replication using an extra permission. Note that this
guide covers the Upsun side; you need to set up and maintain your own
replica instance. Consult the MySQL or MariaDB documentation for steps
to do so. \## Create a replication user To set up replication you need
to create a replication-enabled user. For each database that you\'d like
to replicate, you need to assign a \`replication\` permission/role,
under a corresponding \`endpoint\`: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \# The name
of the service container. Must be unique within a project. mariadb:
type: mariadb:11.4 configuration: schemas: - main endpoints: \# Restate
the default user to be used by your application. mysql: default_schema:
main privileges: main: admin replicator: privileges: main: replication
\`\`\` This creates a \`replicator\` user, and grants read-only and
table locking rights on the \`main\` database (namely \`Select_priv\`,
\`Show_view_priv\`, \`Create_tmp_table_priv\`, \`Lock_tables_priv\`
privileges) along with global replication rights (namely
\`Repl_slave_priv\` and \`Repl_client_priv\` privileges) and flushing
rights (\`Reload_priv\` used for flushing before reading the binary log
position). If there is at least one \`replication\` permission defined,
the bin-logging is enabled on the primary server, which is essential for
the replication. \## Define a relationship for the new endpoint Even if
you won\'t be accessing the replication endpoint from your application,
you still need to expose it to an application as a relationship so that
you can connect to it over SSH. Add a new relationship to your
application container: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The name of the
app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: \# The location
of the application\'s code. source: root: \"/\" \[\...\] \#
Relationships enable an app container\'s access to a service.
relationships: database: service: mariadb endpoint: mysql replication:
service: mariadb endpoint: replicator \`\`\` \## Getting the Primary\'s
Binary Log Co-ordinates Open the MySQL CLI to the \`replication\`
relationship, either by accessing the credentials while on the app
container or using the following command. \`\`\`bash upsun sql -r
replication \`\`\` Now you need to prevent any changes to the data while
you view the binary log position. You\'ll use this to tell the replica
at exactly which point it should start replicating from. On the primary
server, flush and lock all tables by running \`FLUSH TABLES WITH READ
LOCK\`. Keep this session running - exiting it releases the lock. Get
the current position in the binary log by running \`SHOW MASTER
STATUS\`: \`\`\`sql mysql\> FLUSH TABLES WITH READ LOCK; Query OK, 0
rows affected (0.016 sec) mysql\> SHOW MASTER STATUS;
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| File \| Position \| Binlog_Do_DB \| Binlog_Ignore_DB \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| binlogs.000002 \| 1036 \| dflt \| \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\`\`\` Record the \`File\` and \`Position\` details. If binary logging
has just been enabled, these are blank. Now, with the lock still in
place, copy the data from the primary to the replica. Login to the app
container, then run: \`\`\`sh \# Dump the data from primary. Note that
it dumps only the databases, which \"replicator\" user has access to. \$
mysqldump \--all-databases \--single-transaction -h database.internal -P
3306 -u replicator -p \> /path/to/dump.sql \`\`\` Download the dump
file, then move it to the server where your replica lives to import it.
\`\`\`bash \# Copy the dump to your replica \$ mysql -u root \<
/path/to/dump.sql \`\`\` Note for live databases: You just need to make
a local copy of the data, you don\'t need to keep the primary locked
until the replica has imported the data. Once the \`mysqldump\` has
completed, you can release the lock on the primary by running \`UNLOCK
TABLES\`. \`\`\`sql mysql\> UNLOCK TABLES; \`\`\` \## Setting up the
replica \### Configuring the replica As mentioned above you have to set
up a replica on your own. Assuming that you have a running MariaDB/MySQL
replica instance, give the replica a unique \`server_id\` (distinct from
primary). You can find out primary\'s \`server_id\` by running:
\`\`\`sql mysql\> SHOW VARIABLES LIKE \'server_id\';
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\--+ \| Variable_name \| Value
\| +\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\--+ \| server_id \| 1 \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\--+ \`\`\` Then set a distinct
\`server_id\` number (e.g. server_id+1) in your replica config (e.g.
\`my.cnf\`) under: \`\`\` \[mysqld\] server_id=2 \`\`\` And reload the
replica instance for the changes to take an effect. \### Set up SSH
tunneling You need to set up an SSH tunnel from the replica server to
the primary, tunneled through the application. To do so using the Upsun
CLI, run the following (replacing \`BRANCH_NAME\` with the name of your
production branch): \`\`\`bash upsun tunnel:open \--project PROJECT_ID
\--environment BRANCH_NAME \`\`\` This opens local SSH tunnels to all
services accessible from the application. In practice, you may be better
served by setting up the tunnel manually using SSH. Consult the SSH
documentation for the best way to do so.

### Note

The SSH connection is interrupted every time the environment redeploys.
For replication to continue you must setup an auto-restart for the
connection. There are many ways to do so that are out of the scope of
this documentation.

\### Starting the Replica Once the data has been imported, you are ready
to start replicating. Begin by running a \`CHANGE MASTER TO\`, making
sure that \`MASTER_LOG_FILE\` matches the file and \`MASTER_LOG_POS\`
the position returned by the earlier \`SHOW MASTER STATUS\` on the Upsun
database. For example: \`\`\`sql mysql\> CHANGE MASTER TO
MASTER_HOST=\'REPLICATION_HOST\', MASTER_USER=\'replicator\',
MASTER_PASSWORD=\'REPLICATION_PASSWORD\', MASTER_PORT=3306,
MASTER_LOG_FILE=\'binlogs.000002\', MASTER_LOG_POS=1036,
MASTER_CONNECT_RETRY=10; \`\`\` Where \`REPLICATION_HOST\` varies
depending on the SSH tunneling configuration you have, and the
\`REPLICATION_PASSWORD\` can be obtained by running \`upsun ssh env\`.
Now start the replica with the \`START SLAVE\` command: \`\`\`sql
mysql\> START SLAVE; \`\`\` Check that the replication is working by
executing the \`SHOW SLAVE STATUS\` command: \`\`\`sql mysql\> SHOW
SLAVE STATUS \\G \`\`\` If replication is working correctly, the values
of both \`Slave_IO_Running\` and \`Slave_SQL_Running\` should be
\`Yes\`: \`\`\`sql Slave_IO_Running: Yes Slave_SQL_Running: Yes \`\`\`
\### \[Optional/Troubleshooting\] Skipping invalid binary log queries In
some cases, after applying primary\'s dump to the replica and starting
the replica, you might experience replication errors
(\`Slave_SQL_Running: No\` and \`Error:\` in the output of \`SHOW SLAVE
STATUS \\G\` above). Each of such errors needs a careful inspection, but
you might be able to just skip some of them. For example: \`\`\`sql
mysql\> STOP SLAVE; SET GLOBAL SQL_SLAVE_SKIP_COUNTER = 1; START SLAVE;
mysql\> SHOW SLAVE STATUS \\G \`\`\` In case you have multiple errors
you would need to repeat the steps above (preferred) or set
\`SQL_SLAVE_SKIP_COUNTER\` (which corresponds to skipping the next N
events from the primary) to something greater. #Project isolation At
Upsun, customer environments are strictly isolated from each other using
\[namespaces\](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/namespaces.7.html),
\[seccomp\](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/seccomp.2.html), and
\[cgroups\](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/cgroups.7.html).
Persistent data (uploaded files into mounts, database data, etc.) is
stored on a region-wide storage layer. Data is stored redundantly and
mounted into the environments on deployment. Network is behind a
firewall for incoming connections. Only a few ports are opened to
incoming traffic: ??? There are no exceptions, so any incoming web
service requests,
\[ETL\](https://aws.amazon.com/what-is/etl/#:\~:text=Extract%2C%20transform%2C%20and%20load%20%28,and%20machine%20learning%20%28ML%29%29.)
jobs, or otherwise need to transact over one of these protocols.
Outgoing TCP traffic isn't behind a firewall, \*\*with the exception of
port 25 which is blocked\*\*. For containers to be allowed to connect to
each other, the following requirements must be met: - The containers
must live in the same environment. - You need to define an explicit
relationship between the containers in your app configuration. #Proxy
routes

### Warning

Only use this feature to address edge cases where you need to proxy to
another, outside project. **Do not use this for internal routing.** To
expose your app to the outside world, see how to define routes.

Sometimes you want your app to pass requests on to a different Upsun
project. Basic redirects only work within the same project, so use proxy
routes for routes elsewhere. You can define an external proxy on your
Upsun project by defining a route like the following: \`\`\`yaml {}
routes: https://{default}/foo: type: proxy to: https://www.example.com
\`\`\` This route passes requests for
\`https://{default}/foo/index.html\` to
\`https://www.example.com/foo/index.html\`. You can also define a proxy
route to an URL composed of an IP address and a port: \`\`\`yaml {}
routes: https://{default}/foo: type: proxy to: https://192.0.2.0:8000
\`\`\` \## URL paths In the basic example above, the route preserves the
URL path, \`/foo\`, in the request. If you want to proxy a route to
\`https://www.example.com\` without the URL path \`/foo\`, add a
trailing slash \`/\` to the \`to\` definition. \`\`\`yaml {} routes:
https://{default}/foo: type: proxy to: https://www.example.com/ \`\`\`
The trailing slash makes the proxy route interpret the location as
having a different path. So requests for
\`https://{default}/foo/index.html\` are forwarded to
\`https://www.example.com/index.html\`. To override the URL path
entirely, define a route that contains its own path. For example:
\`\`\`yaml {} routes: https://{default}/foo: type: proxy to:
https://www.example.com/bar \`\`\` This route passes requests for
\`https://{default}/foo/index.html\` to
\`https://www.example.com/bar/index.html\`. \## Multiple apps with the
same base URL You can use proxy routes to map a single domain to
multiple Upsun projects with their own subdomain/domain names. You might
have a need to access multiple projects, each hosting specific
applications for different languages. You want to serve them all at the
same base URL with different paths (\`https://example.com/en\`,
\`https://example.com/fr\`, and so on). Because domains can\'t be reused
at Upsun, you can\'t just set the same domain for all projects. Use
proxy routes so a single project can access different projects using the
same base URL. In the following example, a single project specifies
proxy routes to three apps with the same \`default\` base URL. Each app
handles a different language. \`\`\`yaml {} routes:
https://{default}/en: type: proxy to: https://en.example.com/
https://{default}/jp: type: proxy to: https://jp.example.com/
https://{default}/pt: type: proxy to: https://pt.example.com/ \`\`\` The
apps behind the proxy need to ensure links to assets are shown to the
target domain. For example, by changing
\`https://en.example.com/style.css\` to
\`https://example.com/en/style.css\`. The following diagram shows the
example project forwarding specific requests to the correct app. \`\`\`
mermaid sequenceDiagram participant User participant Project as Proxy
project participant En as En project participant Jp as Jp project
participant Pt as Pt project User-\>\>+Project:
example.com/en/index.html Project-\>\>+En: en.example.com/index.html
Note over En: Changes asset links En\--\>\>-Project: index.html
Project\--\>\>-User: index.html User-\>\>+Project:
example.com/jp/index.html Project-\>\>+Jp: jp.example.com/index.html
Note over Jp: Changes asset links Jp\--\>\>-Project: index.html
Project\--\>\>-User: index.html User-\>\>+Project:
example.com/pt/index.html Project-\>\>+Pt: pt.example.com/index.html
Note over Pt: Changes asset links Pt\--\>\>-Project: index.html
Project\--\>\>-User: index.html \`\`\` \### Large projects This
architecture makes the router of a single project into the central
element of your app. This setup may make scaling more difficult as the
router scales with the size of that project. The router can become a
bottleneck for all external sites and acts as a single point of failure.
For larger projects, you should handle multiple websites with the same
base URL via a \[CDN\](../domains/cdn/\_index.md). #Redirects Managing
redirection rules is a common requirement for web applications,
especially in cases where you do not want to lose incoming links that
have changed or been removed over time. You can manage redirection rules
on your Upsun projects in two different ways, which we describe here. If
neither of these options satisfy your redirection needs, you can still
implement redirects directly from within your application, which if
implemented with the appropriate caching headers would be almost as
efficient as using the configuration options provided by Upsun. \##
Whole-route redirects Using whole-route redirects, you can define very
basic routes in your \[\`.upsun/config.yaml\`\](./\_index.md) file whose
sole purpose is to redirect. A typical use case for this type of route
is adding or removing a \`www.\` prefix to your domain, as the following
example shows: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: https://{default}/: type: redirect
to: https://www.{default}/ \`\`\` \## Partial redirects In the
\[\`.upsun/config.yaml\`\](./\_index.md) file you can also add partial
redirect rules to existing routes: \`\`\`yaml {} routes:
https://{default}/: \# \... redirects: expires: 1d paths: \'/from\': to:
\'https://example.com/\' \'\^/foo/(.\*)/bar\': to:
\'https://example.com/\$1\' regexp: true \`\`\` This format is richer
and works with any type of route, including routes served directly by
the application. Two keys are available under \`redirects\`: \| Key \|
Required \| Description \| \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| \`expires\` \| No \| The
duration the redirect is cached. Examples of valid values include
\`3600s\`, \`1d\`, \`2w\`, \`3m\`. To disable caching for all your
redirects, set \`expires\` to \`0\`. You can also \[disable caching on a
specific redirect\](#disable-caching-on-your-redirects). \| \| \`paths\`
\| Yes \| The paths to be redirected \| Each rule under \`paths\` is
defined by a key describing: - The expression to match against the
request path - A value object describing both the destination to
redirect to, with detail on how to handle the redirection The value
object is defined with the following keys: \| Key \| Required \| Default
\|Description \| \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \|
\| \`to\` \| Yes \| n/a \| A relative URL - \`\'/destination\'\`, or
absolute URL - \`\'https://example.com/\'\`. \| \| \`regexp\` \| No \|
\`false\` \| Specifies whether the path key should be interpreted as a
PCRE regular expression. If you use a capturing group, the replace field
(\`\$1\`) has to come after a slash (\`/\`). \[More
information\](#redirects-using-regular-expressions).\| \| \`prefix\` \|
No \| \`true\`, but not supported if \`regexp\` is \`true\` \| Specifies
whether both the path and all its children or just the path itself
should be redirected. \[More
information\](#redirects-using-prefix-and-append_suffix).\| \|
\`append_suffix\` \| No \| \`true\`, but not supported if \`regexp\` is
\`true\` or if \`prefix\` is \`false\` \| Determines if the suffix is
carried over with the redirect. \[More
information\](#redirects-using-prefix-and-append_suffix).\| \| \`code\`
\| No \| n/a \| HTTP status code. Valid status codes are \`301\`,
\`302\`, \`307\`, and \`308\`. Defaults to \`302\`. \[More
information\](#specify-a-http-status-code). \| \| \`expires\` \| No \|
Defaults to the \`expires\` value defined directly under the
\`redirects\` key, but can be fine-tuned. To \[disable caching on a
specific redirect\](#disable-caching-on-your-redirects), set \`expires\`
to \`0\`. \| The duration the redirect is cached for. \[More
information\](#manage-caching). To set up partial redirects, you can use
regular expressions (\`regexp\`). Alternatively, and in many cases, you
can use the \`prefix\` and/or \`append_suffix\` keys to achieve the same
results. Here are some examples to illustrate this and help you choose a
method for your partial redirects:

::::::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   `regexp`
-   `prefix`
-   `append_suffix`

Consider this `regexp` redirect:

`'^/from(/.*|)$': regexp: true to: https://example.com/to$1`

It achieves the same result as this basic redirect:

`'/from': to: https://example.com/to`

Consider this redirect using `prefix`:

`'/from': to: https//example.com/to prefix: false`

It achieves the same result as this `regexp` redirect:

`'^/from$': regexp: true to: https://example.com/to`

Consider this redirect using `append_suffix`:

`'/from': to: https//example.com/to append_suffix: false`

It achieves the same result as this `regexp` redirect:

`'^/from(/.*|)$': regexp: true to: https://example.com/to`

### Warning

If you're using `regexp` in a redirect, you can't also use `prefix` and
`append_suffix`. Likewise, if you're using `prefix` and `append_suffix`,
you can't also use `regexp`.

\### Redirects using regular expressions You can use regular expressions
to configure your redirects. In the following example, a request to
\`https://example.com/foo/a/b/c/bar\` redirects to
\`https://example.com/a/b/c\`: \`\`\`yaml {} routes: https://{default}/:
type: upstream \# \... redirects: paths: \'\^/foo/(.\*)/bar\': to:
\'https://example.com/\$1\' regexp: true \`\`\` The following special
arguments in the \`to\` statement are available when \`regexp\` is set
to \`true\`: - \`\$is_args\` evaluates to \`?\` or empty string -
\`\$args\` evaluates to the full query string if any - \`\$arg_foo\`
evaluates to the value of the query parameter \`foo\` - \`\$uri\`
evaluates to the full URI of the request. \### Redirects using
\`prefix\` and \`append_suffix\` Instead of using regular expressions to
configure your redirects, you might want to use the \`prefix\` and
\`append_suffix\` keys.

### Warning

If you're using `regexp` in a redirect, you can't also use `prefix` and
`append_suffix`. Likewise, if you're using `prefix` and `append_suffix`,
you can't also use `regexp`.

When set to \`true\`, which is their default value, \`prefix\` and
\`append_suffix\` are equivalent. For example:
`routes: https://{default}/: type: upstream # ... redirects: paths: '/from': to: 'https://{default}/to' prefix: true`
`routes: https://{default}/: type: upstream # ... redirects: paths: '/from': to: 'https://{default}/to' append_suffix: true`
With both configurations: - \`/from\` redirects to \`/to\` -
\`/from/some/path\` redirects to \`/to/some/path\` However, when set to
\`false\`, \`prefix\` and \`append_suffix\` behave differently. For
example, with the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml routes:
https://{default}/: type: upstream \# \... redirects: paths: \'/from\':
to: \'https://{default}/to\' prefix: true \`\`\` A request to \`/from/\`
redirects to \`/to/some/path\`, but a request to \`/from/some/path\`
does not. And with the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml routes:
https://{default}/: type: upstream \# \... redirects: paths: \'/from\':
to: \'https://{default}/to\' append_suffix: false \`\`\` A request to
\`/from/some/path\` (and any path after \`/from\`) redirects to just
\`/to\`. \### Specify a HTTP status code To set a specific HTTP status
code for your redirect, use the \`codes\` key: \`\`\`yaml routes:
https://{default}/: type: upstream \# \... redirects: paths: \'/from\':
to: \'https://example.com/\' code: 308 \'/here\': to:
\'https://example.com/there\' \`\`\` In this example, redirects from
\`/from\` use a \`308\` HTTP status code, while redirects from \`/here\`
default to \`302\` (\"found\", as long as the resource is indeed found
as a result from the redirect). \### Manage caching You can \[set an
expiration time on your
redirects\](#set-an-expiration-time-on-your-redirects) or even \[disable
caching\](#disable-caching-on-your-redirects) on them. \#### Set an
expiration time on your redirects You can specify how long you want your
redirects to be cached for. To do so, use the \`expires\` key under the
\`redirects\` key. In the following example, all redirects are cached
for two weeks: \`\`\`yaml routes: https://{default}/: type: upstream \#
\... redirects: expires: 2w paths: \'/from\': to:
\'https://example.com/\' \'/here\': to: \'https://example.com/there\'
\`\`\` If you want to set a different expiration time for a specific
redirect, use the same \`expires\` key, but under the \`paths\` key. In
the following example: - The first redirect uses the default expiration
time set on all redirects and is cached for two weeks - The second
redirect ignores the default expiration time set on all redirects, and
is cached for three days instead \`\`\`yaml routes: https://{default}/:
type: upstream \# \... redirects: expires: 2w paths: \'/from\': to:
\'https://example.com/\' \'/here\': to: \'https://example.com/there\'
expires: 3d \`\`\`

### Note

You can set an expiration time on a specific redirect (under the `paths`
key) even if you haven't defined a default expiration time on all your
redirects (under the `redirects` key).

The expiration time you set on a specific redirect (under the `paths`
key) overwrites any default expiration time you may have set on all your
redirects (under the `redirects` key).

\#### Disable caching on your redirects To disable caching on all your
redirects, set the \`expires\` key to \`0\` under the \`redirects\` key:
\`\`\`yaml routes: https://{default}/: type: upstream \# \... redirects:
expires: 0 paths: \'/from\': to: \'https://example.com/\' \'/here\': to:
\'https://example.com/there\' \`\`\` To disable caching on a specific
redirect only, set the \`expires\` key to \`0\` under the relevant path
in the \`paths\` section. In the following example, caching is disabled
on the second redirect only: \`\`\`yaml routes: https://{default}/:
type: upstream \# \... redirects: paths: \'/from\': to:
\'https://example.com/\' \'/here\': to: \'https://example.com/there\'
expires: 0 \`\`\` \## Other redirects \### Application-driven redirects
If neither whole-route or partial redirects satisfy your redirection
needs, you can still implement redirects directly in your application.
If sent with the appropriate caching headers, this is nearly as
efficient as implementing the redirect through one of the two
configurations described above. Implementing application-driven
redirects depends on your own code or framework and is beyond the scope
of this documentation. \### Query-strings based redirects Upsun \*\*does
not\*\* support redirects based on query strings. If you want to
redirect based on query strings, this logic has to be implemented by
your application. #Rename the default environment You can set the name
of your default/production environment when creating a project. To
change it after project creation, follow the steps below. For
consistency, the steps are all given using the
\[CLI\](../administration/cli/\_index.md). The examples below are based
off of changing the default environment from \`old\` to \`main\`.
Replace these names with what suits your situation. If your site is
already live, remember that deactivating an environment is a destructive
operation that can result in data loss. To minimize potential issues,
take the following steps: - Switch the default environment during
non-peak hours. - Keep your data by taking a \[backup of the \`old\`
environment\](../environments/backup.md) - Reduce your DNS time-to-live
(TTL) to a minimum. \## Requirements If you have a domain set for your
default environment, remove it before changing the default branch.
Otherwise you get an error that \`default domain must be a valid project
domain\`. To change the default branch, you need to be an \[admin for
the project\](../administration/users.md) \## Note on source
integrations The following steps depend of whether your project has a
\[source integration\](../integrations/source/\_index.md). If it
doesn\'t, Upsun is your primary remote repository for the project. If it
does, GitHub, GitLab, or BitBucket hosts your primary remote repository
for the project. \## 1. Create a \`main\` environment

<div>

-   Without a source integration
-   With a source integration

In your local copy of your repository, create a new environment from
`old` called `main`:

`upsun environment:branch main old`

In your local copy of the external repository, make sure your default
branch is up to date:

`git checkout old && git pull origin old`

Then create the `main` branch off of your default branch and push it to
the remote repository:

`git checkout -b main git push origin main`

Source integrations include all branches, but don't activate the
corresponding environments in Upsun. Activate the `main` environment by
running the following command:

`upsun environment:activate main` \## 2. Copy settings If you have
variables or other settings specific to your default environment, add
those to the \`main\` environment. For example, you may have variables
for your production environment set to not be inheritable (such as if
you set them with \`\--inheritable=false\` through the CLI). These
variables aren\'t added automatically to child environments and so you
need to add them to the \`main\` environment manually. If you want the
\`main\` environment to send emails, \[turn on outgoing
email\](../development/email.md). \## 3. Make \`main\` a top-level
branch To have \`main\` be your default, it needs to not be a child of
\`old\`. Use the following command to remove its parent and make it a
top-level branch: \`\`\`bash upsun environment:info -e main parent -
\`\`\` \## 4. Make \`main\` the parent for other environments

<div>

-   Without a source integration
-   With a source integration

You probably have other environments that are children of `old`. For
each environment, update its parent to `main`:

`upsun environment:info -e <ENVIRONMENT_NAME> parent main`

To preserve your data on Upsun, it's best to switch your work in
progress to be based off of `main`.

Close any open pull/merge requests and resubmit them against `main`. If
you want to continue working on branches after switching the default
branch, rebase them by running `git rebase --onto main <BRANCH_NAME>`.
Once you resubmit a request, it appears under the `main` environment on
Upsun.

\## 5. Set \`main\` as the default branch

<div>

-   Without a source integration
-   With a source integration

Once `old` has been deactivated, set the project's default branch to
`main`:

`upsun project:info default_branch main`

Set the project's default branch in Upsun to `main`:

`upsun project:info default_branch main`

Follow the instructions to change the default branch to `main` for your
provider:

-   GitHub
-   [GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/repository/branches/default.html#change-the-default-branch-name-for-a-project)
-   BitBucket

\## 6. Deactivate the \`old\` branch To change your default branch, you
first need to deactivate the existing default branch to remove
protections. Deactivate the \`old\` environment without deleting it by
running the following CLI command: \`\`\`bash upsun environment:delete
\--no-delete-branch old \`\`\` \## 7. Update DNS records Whether or not
you\'re using a CDN, if your site is live you have probably added a
Upsun address somewhere when configuring a \[custom
domain\](../domains/steps/\_index.md). If you have a CDN, it\'s with the
CDN provider. If you don\'t have a CDN, it\'s probably a \`CNAME\`
record. In either case, the setting probably has the old environment
name as part of it. Update the setting to use the new environment name.
Verify that the new URL is correct by comparing it to the result from
this command: \`\`\`bash upsun environment:info edge_hostname \`\`\` \##
8. Optional: Delete the \`old\` environment If you no longer want the
\`old\` environment, such as to stop accidental use, delete it
completely: \`\`\`bash upsun environment:delete \--delete-branch old
\`\`\` #Resolve access issues with source integrations If you \[add a
user\](/administration/users.md#add-a-user-to-a-project) to a Upsun
project, but you haven't added them to the remote repository on GitHub,
GitLab, or Bitbucket, they can\'t clone the project locally. That user
might try to clone the repository using the CLI with the following
command: \`\`\`bash upsun get PROJECT_ID \`\`\` In this case, the user
gets an error similar to the following: \`\`\`txt Failed to connect to
the Git repository: git@github.com:organization/repository.git Please
make sure you have the correct access rights and the repository exists.
\`\`\` \## Solution: Check external repository access rights To enable
the user to clone the repository, grant them the correct access rights
for the integrated repository. #Rewrite requests without redirects You
might want to rewrite requests so they\'re served by specific sections
of your app without having to redirect users. For example, you might
want to make URLs seem semantic to users without having to rewrite your
app architecture. In such a case, you might want requests to
\`/shoes/great-shoe/\` to be served as if they were requests to
\`/?category=shoes&product=great-shoe\`. If so, add a
\[rule\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#rules)
similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source:
root: \"/\" web: locations: \'/\': \... rules:
\'\^/(?\[\^/\]+)/(?\[\^/\]+)/\$\': passthru:
\'/?category=\$category&product=\$product\' \`\`\` Or you might organize
your images by file type, but don\'t want to expose the organization
externally. You could rewrite requests to do that behind the scenes:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: source: root: \"/\" web: locations:
\'/\': \... rules: \'\^/img/(?.\*)\\.(?.\*)\$\': passthru:
\'/\$type/\$name.\$type\' \`\`\` Now a request to \`/img/image.png\`
returns the file found at \`/png/image.png\`. \## Query parameters Query
parameters in the request are unaffected and are passed in the request
to the app. So if you have the category and product rule from
previously, a request to \`/shoes/great-shoe/?product=terrible-shoe\` is
rewritten to
\`?category=shoes&product=great-shoe&product=terrible-shoe\`. In that
case, the \`product\` query parameter returns as \`terrible-shoe\`.
#Ruby

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

Upsun supports deploying any Ruby application. Your application can use
any Ruby application server such as Puma or Unicorn and deploying a
Rails or a Sinatra app is very straight forward. \## Supported versions
You can select the major and minor version. Patch versions are applied
periodically for bug fixes and the like. When you deploy your app, you
always get the latest available patches. \### Ruby MRI

-   3.3
-   3.2
-   3.1
-   3.0

\### Specify the language To use Ruby, specify \`ruby\` as your \[app\'s
\`type\`\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#types):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique
within the project. : type: \'ruby:\' \`\`\` For example: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the
project. myapp: type: \'ruby:3.3\' \`\`\` \### Deprecated versions The
following versions are
\[deprecated\](/glossary.html#deprecated-versions). They\'re available,
but they aren\'t receiving security updates from upstream and aren\'t
guaranteed to work. They\'ll be removed in the future, so migrate to one
of the \[supported versions\](#supported-versions).

-   2.7
-   2.6
-   2.5
-   2.4
-   2.3

\## Puma based Rails configuration This example uses Puma to run a Ruby
application. You could use any Ruby application server such as Unicorn.
Configure the \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file with a few key settings as
listed below. A complete example is included at the end of this
section. 1. Specify the language of your application (available versions
are listed above): \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which
must be unique within the project. myapp: type: \'ruby:3.3\' \`\`\` 2.
Setup environment variables. Rails runs by default on a preview
environment. You can change the Rails/Bundler via those environment
variables, some of which are defaults on Upsun. \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the
project. myapp: type: \'ruby:3.3\' variables: env: PIDFILE:
\"tmp/server.pid\" \# Allow to start puma directly even if \`tmp/pids\`
directory is not created RAILS_ENV: \"production\" BUNDLE_WITHOUT:
\'development:test\' TARGET_RUBY_VERSION: \'\~\>3.3\' \# this will allow
to not fail on PATCH update of the image \`\`\` The \`SECRET_KEY_BASE\`
variable is generated automatically based on the
\[\`PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\`
variable\](../development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables)
but you can change it. Based on TARGET_RUBY_VERSION, we recommand to set
on your Gemfile so next PATCH release of ruby doesn\'t fail the build:
\`\`\`ruby ruby ENV\[\"TARGET_RUBY_VERSION\"\] \|\|
File.read(File.join(File.dirname(\_\_FILE\_\_),
\".ruby-version\")).strip \`\`\` 3. Build your application with the
build hook. Assuming you have your dependencies stored in the
\`Gemfile\` at \[your app
root\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#root-directory),
create a hook like the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The
app\'s name, which must be unique within the project. myapp: type:
\'ruby:3.3\' \... hooks: build: \| set -e bundle install bundle exec
rails assets:precompile deploy: bundle exec rake db:migrate \`\`\` These
are installed as your project dependencies in your environment. You can
also use the \`dependencies\` key to install global dependencies. These
can be Ruby, Python, NodeJS, or PHP libraries. If you have assets, it\'s
likely that you need NodeJS/yarn. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The
app\'s name, which must be unique within the project. myapp: type:
\'ruby:3.3\' \... dependencies: nodejs: yarn: \"\*\" \`\`\` 4. Configure
the command to start serving your application (this must be a
foreground-running process) under the \`web\` section: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the
project. myapp: type: \'ruby:3.3\' \... web: upstream: socket_family:
unix commands: \# for puma start: \"bundle exec puma -b
unix://\$SOCKET\" \# for unicorn \# start: \"bundle exec unicorn -l
\$SOCKET\" \`\`\` This assumes you have Puma as a dependency in your
Gemfile: \`\`\`ruby gem \"puma\", \"\>= 5.0\" \`\`\` 5. Define the web
locations your application is using: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The
app\'s name, which must be unique within the project. myapp: type:
\'ruby:3.3\' \... web: locations: \"/\": root: \"public\" passthru: true
expires: 1h allow: true \`\`\` This configuration sets the web server to
handle HTTP requests at \`/static\` to serve static files stored in
\`/app/static/\` folder. Everything else is forwarded to your
application server. 6. Create any Read/Write mounts. The root file
system is read only. You must explicitly describe writable mounts.
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique
within the project. myapp: type: \'ruby:3.3\' \... mounts: \"/log\":
source: tmp source_path: log \"/storage\": source: storage source_path:
storage \"/tmp\": source: tmp source_path: tmp \`\`\` This setting
allows your application writing temporary files to \`/app/tmp\`, logs
stored in \`/app/log\`, and active storage in \`/app/storage\`. You can
define other read/write mounts (your application code itself being
deployed to a read-only file system). Note that the file system is
persistent and when you backup your cluster these mounts are also backed
up. 7. Then, setup the routes to your application in
\`.upsun/config.yaml\`. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \... routes:
\"https://{default}/\": type: upstream upstream: \"myapp:http\" \`\`\`
\### Complete app configuration Here is a complete
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file: \`\`\`yaml {} \# The name of the app, which
must be unique within a project. applications: myapp: type: \'ruby:3.3\'
dependencies: nodejs: yarn: \"\*\" relationships: mysql: variables: env:
BUNDLE_CACHE_ALL: \'1\' \# Default, Cache all gems, including path and
git gems. BUNDLE_CLEAN: \'1\' \# /!\\ if you are working with Ruby\<2.7
this doesn\'t work well, but should be safe on modern Rubies.
BUNDLE_DEPLOYMENT: \'1\' \# Default, Disallow changes to the Gemfile.
BUNDLE_ERROR_ON_STDERR: \'1\' \# Default. BUNDLE_WITHOUT:
\'development:test\' PIDFILE: \"tmp/server.pid\" \# Allow to start puma
directly even if \`tmp/pids\` directory is not created
DEFAULT_BUNDLER_VERSION: \"2.5.14\" \# In case none is mentioned in
Gemfile.lock EXECJS_RUNTIME: \'Node\' \# If you need one on your assets
https://github.com/rails/execjs#readme NODE_ENV: \'production\'
NODE_VERSION: v14.17.6 NVM_VERSION: v0.38.0 RACK_ENV: \'production\'
RAILS_ENV: \'production\' RAILS_LOG_TO_STDOUT: \'1\' \# Default
RAILS_TMP: \'/tmp\' \# Default hooks: build: \| set -e echo \"Installing
NVM \$NVM_VERSION\" unset NPM_CONFIG_PREFIX export
NVM_DIR=\"\$PLATFORM_APP_DIR/.nvm\" \# install.sh will automatically
install NodeJS based on the presence of \$NODE_VERSION curl -o-
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/\$NVM_VERSION/install.sh \|
bash \[ -s \"\$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh\" \] && \\. \"\$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh\" \# we
install the bundled bundler version and fallback to a default (in env
vars above) export BUNDLER_VERSION=\"\$(grep -A 1 \"BUNDLED WITH\"
Gemfile.lock \| tail -n 1)\" \|\| \$DEFAULT_BUNDLER_VERSION echo
\"Install bundler \$BUNDLER_VERSION\" gem install \--no-document bundler
-v \$BUNDLER_VERSION echo \"Installing gems\" \# We copy the bundle
directory to the Upsun cache directory for \# safe keeping, then restore
from there on the next build. That allows \# bundler to skip downloading
code it doesn\'t need to. \[ -d \"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/bundle\" \] && \\
rsync -az \--delete \"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/bundle/\" vendor/bundle/
mkdir -p \"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/bundle\" bundle install \# synchronize
updated cache for next build \[ -d \"vendor/bundle\" \] && \\ rsync -az
\--delete vendor/bundle/ \"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/bundle/\" \# precompile
assets echo \"Precompiling assets\" \# We copy the webpacker directory
to the Upsun cache directory for \# safe keeping, then restore from
there on the next build. That allows \# bundler to skip downloading code
it doesn\'t need to. \#
https://guides.rubyonrails.org/asset_pipeline.html mkdir -p
\"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/webpacker\" mkdir -p
\"\$RAILS_TMP/cache/webpacker\" \[ -d \"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/webpacker\"
\] && \\ rsync -az \--delete \"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/webpacker/\"
\$RAILS_TMP/cache/webpacker/ \# We dont need secret here
https://github.com/rails/rails/issues/32947 SECRET_KEY_BASE=1 bundle
exec rails assets:precompile rsync -az \--delete
\$RAILS_TMP/cache/webpacker/ \"\$PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR/webpacker/\" deploy:
bundle exec rake db:migrate mounts: \"/log\": source: tmp source_path:
log \"/storage\": source: storage source_path: storage \"/tmp\": source:
tmp source_path: tmp web: upstream: socket_family: unix commands: \# for
puma start: \"bundle exec puma -b unix://\$SOCKET\" \# for unicorn \#
start: \"bundle exec unicorn -l \$SOCKET\" locations: \"/\": root:
\"public\" passthru: true expires: 1h allow: true routes:
\"https://{default}/\": type: upstream upstream: \"myapp:http\"
services: \... \`\`\` \## Configuring services This example assumes
there is a MySQL instance. To configure it, \[create a
service\](../add-services/\_index.md) such as the following: \`\`\`yaml
{} applications: \... routes: \... services: mysql: type: mysql:11.4
\`\`\` \## Connecting to services Once you have a service, link to it in
your \[app configuration\](../create-apps/\_index.md): \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: type: \'ruby:3.3\' relationships: mysql: \[\...\]
routes: \[\...\] services: mysql: type: mysql:11.4 \`\`\` By using the
following Ruby function calls, you can obtain the database details.
\`\`\`ruby require \"base64\" require \"json\" relationships=
JSON.parse(Base64.decode64(ENV\[\'PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\'\])) \`\`\`
This should give you something like the following: \`\`\`json {
\"mysql\" : \[ { \"path\" : \"main\", \"query\" : { \"is_master\" : true
}, \"port\" : 3306, \"username\" : \"user\", \"password\" : \"\",
\"host\" : \"mysql.internal\", \"ip\" : \"246.0.241.50\", \"scheme\" :
\"mysql\" } \] } \`\`\` For Rails, you can use the standard Rails
\`config/database.yml\` with the values found with the snippet provided
before. \## Other tips - To speed up boot you can use the \[Bootsnap
gem\](https://github.com/Shopify/bootsnap) and configure it with the
local \`/tmp\`: \`\`\`ruby {} Bootsnap.setup(cache_dir: \"/tmp/cache\")
\`\`\` - For garbage collection tuning, you can read \[this
article\](https://shopify.engineering/17489064-tuning-rubys-global-method-cache)
and look for \[discourse
configurations\](https://github.com/discourse/discourse_docker/blob/b259c8d38e0f42288fd279c9f9efd3cefbc2c1cb/templates/web.template.yml#L8) -
New images are released on a regular basis to apply security patches. To
avoid issues when such updates are performed, use \`\`\` ruby ruby
ENV\[\"TARGET_RUBY_VERSION\"\] \|\|
File.read(File.join(File.dirname(\_\_FILE\_\_),
\".ruby-version\")).strip \`\`\` in your \`Gemfile\`. \##
Troubleshooting By default, deployments have \`BUNDLE_DEPLOYMENT=1\` to
ensure projects have a \`Gemfile.lock\` file. This is safer for version
yank issues and other version upgrade breakages. You may encounter an
error like the following during a build: \`\`\`txt W: bundler: failed to
load command: rake (/app/.global/bin/rake) W:
/app/.global/gems/bundler-2.3.5/lib/bundler/resolver.rb:268:in \`block
in verify_gemfile_dependencies_are_found!\': Could not find gem \'rails
(= 5.2.6)\' in locally installed gems. (Bundler::GemNotFound) \`\`\` To
resolve this error: 1. Run \`bundle install\` with the same \`ruby\` and
\`bundler\` versions defined in your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. 2.
Push the \`Gemfile.lock\` to your repository. #Rust

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

Upsun supports building and deploying applications written in Rust. \##
Supported versions You can select the major version. But the latest
compatible minor version is applied automatically and can't be
overridden. Patch versions are applied periodically for bug fixes and
the like. When you deploy your app, you always get the latest available
patches.

-   1

\## Dependencies The recommended way to handle Rust dependencies on
Upsun is using Cargo. Commit a \`Cargo.toml\` and a \`Cargo.lock\` file
in your repository so the system automatically downloads dependencies
using Cargo. \## Building and running your app Assuming your
\`Cargo.toml\` and \`Cargo.lock\` files are present in your repository,
you can build your app using the \`cargo build\` command to produce a
working executable. You can then start it from the
\`web.commands.start\` directive. Note that the start command \_must\_
run in the foreground. If the program terminates for any reason it is
automatically restarted. The following basic \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md) is sufficient to run most
Rust apps. See the \[complete example\](#complete-example) below for
more details. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: \# The app\'s name, which must
be unique within the project. myapp: \# The language and version for
your app. type: \'rust:1\' hooks: build: cargo build web: commands: \#
Customize the start command with your own target. start:
\'./target/debug/hello\' locations: /: \# Route all requests to the Rust
app, unconditionally. allow: false passthru: true \`\`\` Note that there
is still an Nginx proxy server sitting in front of your application. If
desired, certain paths may be served directly by Nginx without hitting
your application (for static files, primarily) or you may route all
requests to the Rust app unconditionally, as in the example above. \##
Built-in variables Upsun exposes relationships and other configuration
as \[environment variables\](../development/variables/\_index.md). To
get the \`PORT\` environment variable (the port on which your app is
supposed to listen), use the following snippet: \`\`\`rust let port :
String = env::var(\"PORT\").unwrap_or(String::from(\"8888\")); \`\`\`
Note that some of the environment variables are in JSON format and are
base64 encoded. For example, to decode the \`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\`
environment variable, use the following snippet: \`\`\`rust use
base64::{Engine as \_, engine::{general_purpose}}; use
serde_json::Value; let bytes =
general_purpose::STANDARD.decode(env::var(\"PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\").unwrap_or(String::new())).unwrap();
let psh_config: Value = serde_json::from_slice(&bytes).unwrap();
println!(\"{}\", psh_config\[\"database\"\]); \`\`\` \## Complete
example Here is a basic hello world app to illustrate how you can use
Rust with Upsun. It builds from a \`hello.rs\` file to serve a static
\`index.html\`. Follow these steps: 1. \[Install Rust and
Cargo\](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install). 2. Create a repository
for your app and add the following \`Cargo.toml\` file: \`\`\`toml
\[package\] name = \"hello_world\" version = \"0.1.0\" edition =
\"2021\" \[\[bin\]\] name = \"hello\" path = \"hello.rs\"
\[dependencies\] time = \"0.1.12\" regex = \"0.1.41\" base64 =
\"0.21.0\" serde = { version = \"1.0\", features = \[\"derive\"\] }
serde_json = \"1.0\" \`\`\` 3. Add the following \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md): \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: \# The app\'s name, which must be unique within the
project. myapp: \# The language and version for your app. type:
\'rust:1\' hooks: build: cargo build web: commands: \# Customize the
start command with your own target. start: \'./target/debug/hello\'
locations: /: \# Route all requests to the Rust app, unconditionally.
allow: false passthru: true \`\`\` 4. To generate a \`Cargo.lock\` file,
run the following command: \`\`\`bash cargo generate-lockfile \`\`\` 5.
Add the following \`hello.rs\` file: \`\`\`rust /\* Simple HTTP Server
\*/ /\* Author : Ramesh Vyas \*/ use std::io::prelude::\*; use
std::net::TcpListener; use std::net::TcpStream; use std::fs; use
std::env; fn main() { /\* Creating a Local TcpListener at Port 8888 \*/
const HOST : &str =\"127.0.0.1\"; let port : String =
env::var(\"PORT\").unwrap_or(String::from(\"8888\")); /\* Concating Host
address and Port to Create Final Endpoint \*/ let end_point : String =
HOST.to_owned() + \":\" + &port; /\*Creating TCP Listener at our end
point \*/ let listener = TcpListener::bind(end_point).unwrap();
println!(\"Web server is listening at port {}\",port); /\* Connecting to
any incoming connections \*/ for stream in listener.incoming() { let
\_stream = stream.unwrap(); // Call Function to process any incomming
connections handle_connection(\_stream); } } fn handle_connection(mut
stream: TcpStream) { let mut buffer = \[0; 1024\]; stream.read(&mut
buffer).unwrap(); let get = b\"GET / HTTP/1.1\\r\\n\"; if
buffer.starts_with(get) { let contents =
fs::read_to_string(\"index.html\").unwrap(); let response = format!(
\"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\\r\\nContent-Length: {}\\r\\n\\r\\n{}\",
contents.len(), contents ); stream.write(response.as_bytes()).unwrap();
stream.flush().unwrap(); } else { // some other request } } \`\`\`
#Sanitizing databases: MariaDB and Drupal Databases of live websites
often contain personally identifiable information (PII) such as full
names, mailing addresses, and phone numbers. To ensure people reviewing
code changes can\'t access information they shouldn\'t, sanitize your
databases of any PII that they may contain. This example goes through
the process for a MySQL database using Drupal. \## Before you begin You
need: - A project with a \[MySQL
database\](../../add-services/mysql/\_index.md). - A command interface
installed: - If doing it manually, the \[Upsun
CLI\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md). - Otherwise, make sure
\[Drush\](https://www.drush.org/latest/install/) is installed in your
environment. This guide is about sanitizing MySQL databases. This guide
doesn\'t address: - Sanitizing NoSQL Databases (such as
\[MongoDB\](../../add-services/mongodb.md)) - Input validation and input
sanitization, which both help prevent security vulnerabilities \##
Sanitize the database Make sure that you only sanitize preview
environments and \*\*never\*\* the production environment. Otherwise you
may lose most or even all of the relevant data stored in your database.
First, take a \[database
dump\](../../add-services/mysql/\_index.md#exporting-data) of your
preview environment. This is just a safety precaution. Production data
isn\'t altered. To get a database dump, run the following command:
`upsun db:dump -e DEVELOPMENT_ENVIRONMENT_NAME `.

::::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Manually
-   With Drupal and Drush

Assumptions:

-   `users` is the table where all of your PII is stored in the
    `staging` development database.
-   `staging` is an exact copy of your production database.

1.  Connect to the `staging` database by running `upsun sql -e staging`.

2.  Display all fields from your `users` table, to select which ones
    need to be redacted. Run the following query:

    `MariaDB [main]> SELECT * FROM users;`

    You see output like the following:

    `+----+------------+---------------+---------------------------+---------------+ | ID | first_name | last_name | user_email | display_name | +----+------------+---------------+---------------------------+---------------+ | 1 | admin | admin | admin@yourcompany.com | admin | | 2 | john | doe | john.doe@gmail.com | john | | 3 | jane | doe | janedoe@ymail.com | jane | +----+------------+---------------+---------------------------+---------------+`

3.  Change the fields where PII is contained with the `UPDATE`
    statement. For example, to change the display name of users with an
    email address not in your company's domain to a random value, run
    the following query:

    `UPDATE users SET display_name==substring(md5(display_name||'$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY') for 8); WHERE email NOT LIKE '%@yourcompany%'`

    Adapt and run that query for all fields that you need to sanitize.
    If you modify fields that you shouldn't alter, you can restore them
    from the dump you took in step 1.

    You can create a script to automate the sanitization process to be
    run automatically on each new deployment. Once you have a working
    script, add your script to sanitize the database to [a `deploy`
    hook](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.html#deploy-hook):

    .upsun/config.yaml
    `applications: myapp: # ... hooks: deploy: | # ... cd /app/public if [ "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" = production ]; then # Do whatever you want on the production site. else # The sanitization of the database should happen here (since it's non-production) sanitize_the_database.sh fi`

To sanitize your database and get rid of sensitive, live information,
use the `drush sql:sanitize` command. Add your script to sanitize the
database to [a `deploy`
hook](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.html#deploy-hook) for preview
environments:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: hooks: deploy: | # ... cd /app/public if [ "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" = production ]; then # Do whatever you want on the production site. else drush -y sql:sanitize fi drush -y updatedb`

More options are available. These are described in the Drush
documentation.

To sanitize only on the initial deploy and not all future deploys, use
Drush state as in the following example:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: myapp: hooks: deploy: | # ... cd /app/public if [ "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" = production ] || [ "$(drush state:get --format=string mymodule.sanitized)" != yes ]; then # Do whatever you want on the production site. else drush -y sql:sanitize drush state:set --input-format=string mymodule.sanitized yes fi`
\## What\'s next You learned how to remove sensitive data from a
database. To replace sensitive data that with other meaningful data, you
can add a \`faker\` to the process. A \`faker\` is a program that
generates fake data that looks real. Having meaningful PII-free data
allows you to keep your current Q&A, external reviews, and other
processes. To add a faker, adapt your sanitizing queries to replace each
value that contains PII with a new value generated by the faker. You
might also want to make sure that you \[implement input
validation\](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Input_Validation_Cheat_Sheet.html#goals-of-input-validation).
If your database contains a lot of data, consider using the \[\`OPTIMIZE
TABLE\` statement\](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/optimize-table/) to reduce
its size and help improve performance. #Sanitizing databases: PostgreSQL
and Django Databases of live websites often contain personally
identifiable information (PII) such as full names, mailing addresses,
and phone numbers. To ensure people reviewing code changes can\'t access
information they shouldn\'t, sanitize your databases of any PII that
they may contain. This example goes through the process for a PostgreSQL
database using Django. \## Before you begin You need: - A project with a
\[PostgreSQL database\](../../add-services/postgresql.md). - A command
interface installed: - If doing it manually, the \[Upsun
CLI\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md). - Otherwise, make sure
`pqsl` is installed in your environment. This guide is about sanitizing
PostgreSQL databases. This guide doesn\'t address: - Sanitizing NoSQL
Databases (such as \[MongoDB\](../../add-services/mongodb.md)) - Input
validation and input sanitization, which both help prevent security
vulnerabilities \## Sanitize the database Make sure that you only
sanitize preview environments and \*\*never\*\* the production
environment. Otherwise you may lose most or even all of the relevant
data stored in your database. First, take a \[database
dump\](../../add-services/postgresql.md#exporting-data) of your preview
environment. This is just a safety precaution. Production data isn\'t
altered. To get a database dump, run the following command:
`upsun db:dump -e DEVELOPMENT_ENVIRONMENT_NAME `.

:::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Manually
-   Using a script with Django and `psql`

Assumptions:

-   `users` is the table where all of your PII is stored in the
    `staging` development database.
-   `staging` is an exact copy of your production database.

1.  Connect to the `staging` database by running `upsun sql -e staging`.

2.  Display all fields from your `users` table, to select which ones
    need to be redacted. Run the following query:

    `main=> SELECT * FROM users;`

    You see output like the following:

    `id | user_email | display_name -----+-----------------------------------------+----------------------- 3501 | daniel02@yourcompany.com | Jason Brown 3502 | ismith@kim.com | Sandra Griffin 3503 | olee@coleman-rodriguez.com | Miss Christine Morgan`

3.  Change the fields where PII is contained with the `UPDATE`
    statement. For example, to change the display name of users with an
    email address not in your company's domain to a random value, run
    the following query:

    `UPDATE users SET display_name==substring(md5(display_name||'$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY') for 8); WHERE email NOT LIKE '%@yourcompany%'`

    Adapt and run that query for all fields that you need to sanitize.
    If you modify fields that you shouldn't alter, you can restore them
    from the dump you took in step 1.

    You can create a script to automate the sanitization process to be
    run automatically on each new deployment. Once you have a working
    script, add your script to sanitize the database to [a `deploy`
    hook](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.html#deploy-hook):

    .upsun/config.yaml
    `applications: myapp: # ... hooks: deploy: | # ... cd /app/public if [ "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" = production ]; then # Do whatever you want on the production site. else # The sanitization of the database should happen here (since it's non-production) sanitize_the_database.sh fi`

Assumptions:

-   `users` is the table where all of your PII is stored in the
    `staging` development database.
-   `database` is the relationship name for the PostgreSQL service.

Set up a script by following these steps:

1.  Retrieve service credentials from the [service environment
    variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables)
    to use the `psql` command interface. Export these values to a
    [`.environment`
    file](/development/variables/set-variables.html#set-variables-via-script)
    or include them directly in the sanitization script.

    .environment
    `# Pull credentials from the service environment variables. DB_USER=${DATABASE_USERNAME} DB_HOST=${DATABASE_HOST} DB_PORT=${DATABASE_PORT} DB_PASS=${DATABASE_PASSWORD}`

2.  Create an executable sanitizing script by running the following
    command:

    `touch sanitize.sh && chmod +x sanitize.sh`

3.  Make the script sanitize environments with an [environment
    type](/administration/users.html#environment-type-roles) other than
    `production`.

    The following example runs only in preview environments and
    sanitizes the `display_name` and `email` columns of the `users`
    table. Adjust the details to fit your data.

    sanitize.sh
    `#!/usr/bin/env bash if [ "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" != production ]; then # Sanitize data PGPASSWORD=$DB_PASS psql -c "UPDATE users SET display_name=substring(md5(display_name||'$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY') for 8);" -U $DB_USER -h $DB_HOST -p $DB_PORT PGPASSWORD=$DB_PASS psql -c "UPDATE users SET email=substring(md5(email||'$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY') for 8);" -U $DB_USER -h $DB_HOST -p $DB_PORT fi`

    To sanitize only on the initial deploy and not all future deploys,
    on sanitization create a file on a
    [mount](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#mounts).
    Then add a check for the file as in the following example:

    sanitize.sh
    `#!/usr/bin/env bash if [ "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" != production ] && [ ! -f MOUNT_PATH/is_sanitized ]; then # Sanitize data touch MOUNT_PATH/is_sanitized fi`

4.  Update the deploy hook to run your script on each deploy.

    .upsun/config.yaml
    `applications: myapp: hooks: build: ... deploy: | python manage.py migrate bash sanitize.sh `

5.  Commit your changes by running the following command:

    `git add .environment sanitize.sh .upsun/config.yaml&& git commit -m "Add sanitization."`

    Push the changes to `staging` and verify that environment's database
    was sanitized. Once merged to production, all data from future
    preview environments are sanitized on environment creation.

\## What\'s next You learned how to remove sensitive data from a
database. To replace sensitive data that with other meaningful data, you
can add a \`faker\` to the process. A \`faker\` is a program that
generates fake data that looks real. Having meaningful PII-free data
allows you to keep your current Q&A, external reviews, and other
processes. To add a faker, adapt your sanitizing queries to replace each
value that contains PII with a new value generated by the faker. You
might also want to make sure that you \[implement input
validation\](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Input_Validation_Cheat_Sheet.html#goals-of-input-validation).
If your database contains a lot of data, consider using the
\[\`REINDEX\`
statement\](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-reindex.html) to
help improve performance. #Sanitizing databases: PostgreSQL and Symfony
Databases of live websites often contain personally identifiable
information (PII) such as full names, mailing addresses, and phone
numbers. To ensure people reviewing code changes can\'t access
information they shouldn\'t, sanitize your databases of any PII that
they may contain. This example goes through the process for a PostgreSQL
database using Symfony. \## Before you begin You need: - A project with
a \[PostgreSQL database\](../../add-services/postgresql.md). - A command
interface installed: - If doing it manually, the \[Symfony
CLI\](https://symfony.com/download). - Otherwise, make sure `pqsl` is
installed in your environment. This guide is about sanitizing PostgreSQL
databases. This guide doesn\'t address: - Sanitizing NoSQL Databases
(such as \[MongoDB\](../../add-services/mongodb.md)) - Input validation
and input sanitization, which both help prevent security vulnerabilities
\## Sanitize the database Make sure that you only sanitize preview
environments and \*\*never\*\* the production environment. Otherwise you
may lose most or even all of the relevant data stored in your database.
First, take a \[database
dump\](../../add-services/postgresql.md#exporting-data) of your preview
environment. This is just a safety precaution. Production data isn\'t
altered. To get a database dump, run the following command:
`symfony db:dump -e DEVELOPMENT_ENVIRONMENT_NAME `.

::::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Manually
-   Using a Symfony Command
-   Using a shell script

Assumptions:

-   `users` is the table where all of your PII is stored in the
    `staging` development database.
-   `staging` is an exact copy of your production database.

1.  Connect to the `staging` database by running
    `symfony sql -e staging`.

2.  Display all fields from your `users` table, to select which ones
    need to be redacted. Run the following query:

    `main=> SELECT * FROM users;`

    You see output like the following:

    `id | user_email | display_name -----+-----------------------------------------+----------------------- 3501 | daniel02@yourcompany.com | Jason Brown 3502 | ismith@kim.com | Sandra Griffin 3503 | olee@coleman-rodriguez.com | Miss Christine Morgan`

3.  Change the fields where PII is contained with the `UPDATE`
    statement. For example, to change the display name of users with an
    email address not in your company's domain to a random value, run
    the following query:

    `UPDATE users SET display_name==substring(md5(display_name||'$PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY') for 8); WHERE email NOT LIKE '%@yourcompany%'`

    Adapt and run that query for all fields that you need to sanitize.
    If you modify fields that you shouldn't alter, you can restore them
    from the dump you took in step 1.

    You can create a script to automate the sanitization process to be
    run automatically on each new deployment. Once you have a working
    script, add your script to sanitize the database to [a `deploy`
    hook](/create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.html#deploy-hook):

    .upsun/config.yaml
    `applications: myapp: # ... hooks: deploy: | # ... cd /app/public if [ "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" = production ]; then # Do whatever you want on the production site. else # The sanitization of the database should happen here (since it's non-production) sanitize_the_database.sh fi`

Assumptions:

-   An Entity User exist and contains all of your PII (Personally
    Identifiable Information)
-   fakerphp/faker has been installed as a dependency on your Symfony
    application

Set up a script by following these steps:

1.  Create a Symfony command to sanitize data

    src/Command/SanitizeDataCommand.php
    `<?php namespace App\Command; use App\Entity\User; use App\Repository\UserRepository; use Doctrine\ORM\EntityManagerInterface; use Faker; use Symfony\Component\Console\Command\Command; use Symfony\Component\Console\Input\InputInterface; use Symfony\Component\Console\Output\OutputInterface; use Symfony\Component\Console\Style\SymfonyStyle; class SanitizeDataCommand extends Command { protected static $defaultName = 'app:sanitize-data'; protected static $defaultDescription = 'Sanitize user data (username and email).'; public function __construct( private UserRepository $userRepository, private EntityManagerInterface $entityManager ) { parent::__construct(); } protected function configure() { $this->setDescription('This command allows you to sanitize user data (username and email).'); } protected function execute(InputInterface $input, OutputInterface $output) { $io = new SymfonyStyle($input, $output); $users = $this->userRepository->findAll(); $io->progressStart(count($users)); /** @var User $user */ foreach ($users as $user) { $io->progressAdvance(); // initialize faker $faker = Faker\Factory::create(); // sanitize user info $user->setUsername(uniqid($faker->userName())); $user->setEmail($faker->email()); // adapt to your needs $this->entityManager->flush(); } $io->progressFinish(); return static::SUCCESS; } }`

2.  Update the deploy hook to run your Symfony Command on each deploy.

    .upsun/config.yaml
    `applications: myapp: hooks: build: ... deploy: | if [ "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" != production ]; then # The sanitization of the database should happen here (since it's non-production) php bin/console app:sanitize-data fi `

    To sanitize only on the initial deploy and not all future deploys,
    on sanitization create a file on a mount. Then add a check for the
    file as in the following example:

    .upsun/config.yaml
    `applications: myapp: hooks: build: ... deploy: | if [ "$PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE" != production ] && [ ! -f MOUNT_PATH/is_sanitized ]; then # The sanitization of the database should happen here (since it's non-production) php bin/console app:sanitize-data touch MOUNT_PATH/is_sanitized fi `

3.  Commit your changes by running the following command:

    `git add src/Command/SanitizeDataCommand.php .upsun/config.yaml && git commit -m "Add sanitization."`

    Push the changes to `staging` and verify that environment's database
    was sanitized. Once merged to production, all data from future
    preview environments are sanitized on environment creation.

This example show you how to sanitize data on multiple projects inside
an organization, except for production environments.

Assumptions:

-   Symfony Command from previous tab `Using a Symfony Command` has
    already been pushed to all of your environments.

Set up a script by following these steps:

1.  Create an executable sanitizing script by running the following
    command:

    `touch sanitize_fleet.sh && chmod +x sanitize_fleet.sh`

2.  Make the script sanitize environments with an [environment
    type](/administration/users.html#environment-type-roles) other than
    `production`.

    The following example runs only in preview environments and
    sanitizes data using the Symfony Command from previous tab, already
    pushed to all of your environments.

    sanitize_fleet.sh
    `` if [ -n "$ZSH_VERSION" ]; then emulate -L ksh; fi ###################################################### # fleet sanitization demo script, using the Symfony CLI. # # Enables the following workflow on a project: # . # └── main # ├── staging # | └── new-feature # └── auto-updates # # Usage # 1. source this script: `. sanitize_fleet.sh` or `source sanitize_fleet.sh` depending of your local machine # 2. define ORGANIZATION var: ORGANIZATION=<organizationIdentifier> # 3. run `sanitize_organization_data $ORGANIZATION` ###################################################### # Utility functions. # list_org_projects: Print list of projects operation will be applied to before starting. # $1: Organization, as it appears in console.upsun.com. list_org_projects () { symfony project:list -o $1 --columns="ID, Title" } # get_org_projects: Retrieve an array of project IDs for a given organization. # Note: Makes array variable PROJECTS available to subsequent scripts. # $1: Organization, as it appears in console.upsun.com. get_org_projects () { PROJECTS_LIST=$(symfony project:list -o $1 --pipe) PROJECTS=($PROJECTS_LIST) } # get_project_envs: Retrieve an array of envs IDs for a project. # Note: Makes array variable ENVS available to subsequent scripts. # $1: ProjectId, as it appears in console.upsun.com. get_project_envs () { ENV_LIST=$(symfony environment:list -p $1 --pipe) ENVS=($ENV_LIST) } # list_project_envs: Print list of envs operation will be applied to before starting. # $1: ProjectId, as it appears in console.upsun.com. list_project_envs () { symfony environment:list -p $1 } # add_env_var: Add environment level environment variable. # $1: Variable name. # $2: Variable value. # $3: Target project ID. # $4: Target environment ID. add_env_var () { VAR_STATUS=$(symfony project:curl -p $3 /environments/$4/variables/env:$1 | jq '.status') if [ "$VAR_STATUS" != "null" ]; then symfony variable:create \ --name $1 \ --value "$2" \ --prefix env: \ --project $3 \ --environment $4 \ --level environment \ --json false \ --sensitive false \ --visible-build true \ --visible-runtime true \ --enabled true \ --inheritable true \ -q else printf "\nVariable $1 already exists. Skipping." fi } # Main functions. sanitize_organization_data () { list_org_projects $1 get_org_projects $1 for PROJECT in "${PROJECTS[@]}" do printf "\n### Project $PROJECT." # get environments list list_project_envs $PROJECT get_project_envs $PROJECT for ENVIRONMENT in "${ENVS[@]}" do unset -f ENV_CHECK ENV_CHECK=$(symfony project:curl -p $PROJECT /environments/$ENVIRONMENT | jq -r '.status') unset -f ENV_TYPE ENV_TYPE=$(symfony project:curl -p $PROJECT /environments/$ENVIRONMENT | jq -r '.type') if [ "$ENV_CHECK" = active -a "$ENV_TYPE" != production ]; then unset -f DATA_SANITIZED DATA_SANITIZED=$(symfony variable:get -p $PROJECT -e $ENVIRONMENT env:DATA_SANITIZED --property=value) if [ "$DATA_SANITIZED" != true ]; then printf "\nEnvironment $ENVIRONMENT exists and isn't sanitized yet. Sanitizing data." printf "\n" # do sanitization here symfony ssh -p $PROJECT -e $ENVIRONMENT -- php bin/console app:sanitize-data printf "\nSanitizing data is finished, redeploying" add_env_var DATA_SANITIZED true $PROJECT $ENVIRONMENT else printf "\nEnvironment $ENVIRONMENT exists and doesn't need to be sanitized. skipping." fi elif [ "$ENV_TYPE" == production ]; then printf "\nEnvironment $ENVIRONMENT is production one, skipping." else printf "\nEnvironment $ENVIRONMENT isn't active $ENV_CHECK, skipping." fi done done } ``

3.  use this shell script

    Depending on the machine you want to run this script on, adapt this
    to your needs.

    `. sanitize_fleet.sh # or source sanitize_fleet.sh ORGANIZATION=<organizationIdentifier> sanitize_organization_data $ORGANIZATION`

### Note

You can find the organization identifier for a specific project, within
the Upsun console, by clicking on your name, and then on "Settings", in
the top right corner.

1.  \[Option\] Commit your changes by running the following command:

    `git add sanitize_fleet.sh && git commit -m "Add sanitization."`

    Push the changes to `staging` and verify that environment's database
    was sanitized. Once merged to production, all data from future
    preview environments are sanitized on environment creation.

\## What\'s next You learned how to remove sensitive data from a
database. To replace sensitive data that with other meaningful data, you
can add a \`faker\` to the process. A \`faker\` is a program that
generates fake data that looks real. Having meaningful PII-free data
allows you to keep your current Q&A, external reviews, and other
processes. To add a faker, adapt your sanitizing queries to replace each
value that contains PII with a new value generated by the faker. You
might also want to make sure that you \[implement input
validation\](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Input_Validation_Cheat_Sheet.html#goals-of-input-validation).
If your database contains a lot of data, consider using the
\[\`REINDEX\`
statement\](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-reindex.html) to
help improve performance. #Search #Serve directories at different paths
In some cases you might want to depart from the common practice of
serving directories directly. You might want to create a URL structure
different than the structure on your disk. For example, in Git you might
have a folder for your app and another folder that builds your
documentation. Your entire Git repository might look like the following:
\`\`\`text .upsun config.yaml application/ \[app-code-files\] docs-src/
\[docs-code-files\] \`\`\` And your build process might build the
documentation with an output folder such as \`docs-public\`. If so, you
can serve all requests by your app code except for those that start with
\`/docs\`, which you serve with your generated docs. Use a \[\`web\`
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#web)
similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: docs: source:
root: \"/\" web: locations: \'/\': passthru: true \'/docs\': root:
\'docs-public\' index: - \"index.html\" expires: 24h scripts: false
allow: true \`\`\` This way, your app can safely coexist with static
files as if it were a single site hierarchy. And you can keep the static
pages separate from your app code. #Serve static sites Static site
generators are a popular way to create fast sites. Because there\'s no
need to wait for responses from servers, the sites may load faster. To
learn how to serve your static site using Upsun, you can start with the
required \[minimal app configuration\](#minimal-app-configuration) and
build on it, or jump straight to an \[example of a complete
configuration\](#complete-example-configuration). \## Minimal app
configuration To successfully serve a static site using Upsun, you need
to set up a minimal app configuration similar to the following:
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \# The type of the application to
build. type: \"nodejs:22\" source: root: \"/\" \# The web key configures
the web server running in front of your app. web: locations: /: \#
Static site generators usually output built static files to a specific
directory. \# Define this directory (must be an actual directory inside
the root directory of your app) \# as the root for your static site.
root: \"public\" \# Files to consider when serving a request for a
directory. index: - index.html \`\`\` See more information on the
required minimal settings: - \[Top-level
properties\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#primary-application-properties). -
\[\`web\`
property\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#web). -
\[\`locations\`
properties\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#locations).
\## Add more features \### Allow static files but not dynamic files on
PHP containers If you have a PHP container, you might want to enable
client-side scripts but disable server-side scripts. To enable static
files that don\'t match any rule while disabling server-side scripts on
a PHP container, use the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: \# The type of the application to build. type:
\"nodejs:22\" source: root: \"/\" web: locations: \'/\': \... scripts:
false allow: true \`\`\` See more information on \[\`locations\`
properties\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#locations).
\### Create cache rules You can create sensible cache rules to improve
performance. For example, if you publish new content regularly without
updating images or site files much, you might want to cache text files
for a day but all image files for longer. To do so, use a configuration
similar to the following: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \# The type
of the application to build. type: \"nodejs:22\" source: root: \"/\"
web: locations: \'/\': \... expires: 24h rules:
\\.(css\|js\|gif\|jpe?g\|png\|svg)\$: expires: 4w \`\`\` You can also
set a \`Cache-Control\` header in your rules. \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: web: locations: \'/\': \... expires: 24h rules:
\\.(css\|js\|gif\|jpe?g\|png\|svg)\$: headers: Cache-Control: \"public,
max-age=2419200, immutable\" \`\`\` If \`expires\` and a
\`Cache-Control\` header are set, the rule ignores the \`expires\` and
sets only the \`Cache-Control\` header. For this reason, make sure to
add a \`max-age\` value, in seconds, for the \`Cache-Control\` header.
\### Conserve the server Because your site is completely static, it
doesn\'t need the server to be running. To set a background process that
blocks the server and conserves resources, use the following
configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \# The type of the
application to build. type: \"nodejs:22\" source: root: \"/\" web:
commands: start: sleep infinity \`\`\` You can also use this place to
start small programs, such as a \[script to handle 404
errors\](https://community.platform.sh/t/custom-404-page-for-a-static-website/637).
\## Complete example configuration \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \#
The type of the application to build. type: \"python:3.9\" source: root:
\"/\" web: locations: \'/\': \# The public directory of the application
relative to its root root: \'public\' \# The files to look for when
serving a directory index: - \'index.html\' \# Disable server-side
scripts scripts: false allow: true \# Set caching policy expires: 24h
rules: \\.(css\|js\|gif\|jpe?g\|png\|svg)\$: expires: 4w commands: \#
Run a no-op process that uses no CPU resources since this is a static
site start: sleep infinity \`\`\` #Set an environment\'s visibility to
search engines When you have preview environments, you don\'t want
search engines indexing them and diluting the SEO of your production
site. Search engine indexers are told to ignore all preview
environments. When you\'re ready to go live, give your production
environment a \[custom domain\](../domains/steps/\_index.md) and then
set it to be visible to search engines. To change your production
environment\'s visibility to search engines, follow these steps:

:::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

To not restrict indexers on your production environment, run the
following command:

`upsun environment:info --environment PRODUCTION_ENVIRONMENT_NAME restrict_robots false`

-   Select the project where you want to change visibility.
-   From the **Environment** menu, select your production environment.
-   Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
-   In the row with **Hide from search engines**, click **Edit
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+Q2hldnJvbiBJY29uPC90aXRsZT4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTYuOTAwMDIgOS44OTk5QzYuOTAwMDIgOS41OTk5IDcuMDAwMDIgOS4zOTk5IDcuMjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5QzcuNjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguMjAwMDIgOC43OTk5IDguNjAwMDIgOS4xOTk5TDEyLjEgMTIuNjk5OUwxNS42IDkuMTk5OUMxNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTYuNiA4Ljc5OTkgMTcgOS4xOTk5QzE3LjQgOS41OTk5IDE3LjQgMTAuMTk5OSAxNyAxMC41OTk5TDEyLjggMTQuNzk5OUMxMi40IDE1LjE5OTkgMTEuOCAxNS4xOTk5IDExLjQgMTQuNzk5OUw3LjIwMDAyIDEwLjU5OTlDNy4wMDAwMiAxMC4zOTk5IDYuOTAwMDIgMTAuMTk5OSA2LjkwMDAyIDkuODk5OVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)**.
-   Select or clear the **Hide from search engines** checkbox.

Upsun can\'t guarantee that indexers follow the instructions. If you\'re
concerned about access, set up \[HTTP access
control\](./http-access-control.md). \## How it\'s done When the
\*\*Hide from search engines\*\* is activated, search engines are turned
away from environments by including a \`X-Robots-Tag\` header: \`\`\`txt
X-Robots-Tag: noindex, nofollow \`\`\` That tells search engine indexers
to not index these sites and not traverse links from these sites. This
helps keep non-Production sites out of search engine indexes. It\'s
automatically on for all \`upsun.site\` domains, and it\'s automatically
off for production environments with a custom domain. \## Alternative
method You can also send instructions to search engine indexers using a
\`robots.txt\` file. Your app can serve this as a static file from its
disk or as a dynamic response from its \`passthru\`. Control either with
the \[\`location\` section of your app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#locations).
If your \`robots.txt\` file includes instructions to ignore a page,
search engine indexers may ignore it even if you have configured Upsun
to not send the header. #Set custom headers on static content When your
app responds to dynamic requests, it can generate headers on the fly. To
set headers for static content, add them in \[your \`web\`
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#web).
You might want to do so to add custom content-type headers, limit what
other sites can embed your content, or allow cross origin requests. Say
you want to limit most files to be embedded only on your site, but you
want an exception for MP3 files. And you want to serve both MP3 and MP4
files with the correct content types to avoid \[MIME
sniffing\](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types#mime_sniffing).
Start by defining a header for files in general: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: \# The type of the application to build. type:
\"nodejs:22\" source: root: \"/\" web: locations: \"/\": \... \# Apply
rules to all static files (dynamic files get rules from your app)
headers: X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN \`\`\` This sets the
\`X-Frame-Options\` header to \`SAMEORIGIN\` for all static files. Now
your files can only be embedded within your site. Now set up an
exception for MP3 files using a
\[rule\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#rules):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \# The type of the application to
build. type: \"nodejs:22\" source: root: \"/\" web: locations: \"/\":
\... rules: \\.mp3\$: headers: Content-Type: audio/mpeg \`\`\` This rule
sets an explicit content type for files that end in \`.mp3\`. Because
specific rules override the general heading configuration, MP3 files
don\'t get the \`X-Frame-Options\` header set before. Now set a rule for
MP4 files. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: \# The type of the
application to build. type: \"nodejs:22\" source: root: \"/\" web:
locations: \"/\": \... rules: \\.mp4\$: headers: X-Frame-Options:
SAMEORIGIN Content-Type: video/mp4 \`\`\` This rule sets an explicit
content type for files that end in \`.mp4\`. It repeats the rule for
\`X-Frame-Options\` because the \`headers\` block here overrides the
more general configuration. So now you have three header configurations:
\* \`X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\` \*\*and\*\* \`Content-Type:
video/mp4\` for MP4 files \* Only \`Content-Type: audio/mpeg\` for MP3
files \* Only \`X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\` for everything else \##
Cross origin requests To allow cross origin requests, add a
\`Access-Control-Allow-Origin\` header to responses. You can do so for
specific origins or for all origins with a wildcard. \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: \# The type of the application to build. type:
\"nodejs:22\" source: root: \"/\" web: locations: \"/\": \... \# Apply
rules to all static files (dynamic files get rules from your app)
headers: Access-Control-Allow-Origin: \"\*\" \`\`\` If you use the
wildcard value, the headers are modified for each request in the
following ways: \* The value of the \`Access-Control-Allow-Origin\`
header is set to the value of the \`Origin\` request header. \* The
\`Vary\` header is included with a value of \`Origin\`. See why in the
\[MDN web
docs\](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS#access-control-allow-origin).
This is done so that credentialed requests can be supported. They would
otherwise fail CORS checks if the wildcard value is used. \##
\`Strict_Transport_Security\` header The \`Strict_Transport_Security\`
header returns a value of \`max-age=0\` unless you enable \[HTTP Strict
Transport Security
(HSTS)\](https://docs.platform.sh/define-routes/https.html#enable-http-strict-transport-security-hsts)
in your \[routes configuration\](../../define-routes/\_index.md). Note
that once HSTS is enabled, configuration capabilities depend on the
\[HSTS
properties\](https://docs.platform.sh/define-routes/https.html#enable-http-strict-transport-security-hsts)
set in your routes configuration. For example, the \`max-age\` value is
set to \`31536000\` by Upsun and can\'t be customized. #Set variables To
set variables, determine which \[type of
variable\](./\_index.md#variable-types) to use. Remember to take into
account the order of precedence. All of the variables can also be
\[overridden via script\](#set-variables-via-script). \## Set variables
in your app Set variables \[in
code\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#variables)
using the \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. These values are the same across
all environments and present in the Git repository, which makes them a
poor fit for API keys and other such secrets. They\'re better fits for
uses such as configuration for consistent builds across every
environment, including setting \[PHP configuration
values\](./\_index.md#php-specific-variables). Application variables are
available at both build time and runtime. \## Create project variables
Add secrets for all environments in project variables using \[the
Console\](../../administration/web/configure-project.md#variables) or
the \[CLI\](../../administration/cli/\_index.md). For example, you may
need to vary API credentials between production and other environments.
To do so, set the non-production credentials as a project variable and
then override these credentials for the production environment by
setting a \[variable specific to that
environment\](#create-environment-specific-variables).

::::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

To add a project variable, run the following command:

`upsun variable:create --level project --name VARIABLE_NAME --value VARIABLE_VALUE`

To specify other options, use the [flags for variable
options](#variable-options).

To add a project variable, follow these steps:

1.  Select the project where you want to create a variable.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
3.  Under **Project settings**, click **Variables**.
4.  Click **+ Create variable**.
5.  Enter a name for the variable.
6.  Enter the variable value.
7.  Ensure you have selected the right [other
    options](#variable-options).
8.  Click **Create variable**.

When naming variables, be sure to take \[variable
prefixes\](./\_index.md#variable-prefixes) into account. In particular,
to expose a variable as its own environment variable, \[use the prefix
\`env:\`\](../../development/variables/\_index.md#top-level-environment-variables).
\### Variable options Variables have several Boolean options you can set
in the Console or the CLI: \| Option \| CLI flag \| Default \|
Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| JSON \| \`\--json\` \| \`false\` \| Whether the variable is a
JSON-serialized value (\`true\`) or a string (\`false\`). \| \|
Sensitive \| \`\--sensitive\` \| \`false\` \| If set to \`true\`, the
variable\'s value is hidden in the Console and in CLI responses for
added security. It\'s still readable within the app container. \| \|
Runtime \| \`\--visible-runtime\` \| \`true\` \| Whether the variable is
available at runtime. \| \| Build \| \`\--visible-build\` \| \`true\` \|
Whether the variable is available at build time. \| So if you want the
\`foo\` variable to be visible at build time but hidden during runtime,
you can set it by running the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun
variable:create \--level project \--name foo \--value bar
\--visible-build true \--visible-runtime false \`\`\` You can also
change the variable options after you create them (except for sensitive
values, which can\'t be set to non-sensitive). For example, to make the
\`foo\` variable visible at runtime and hidden during the build, run the
following command: \`\`\`bash upsun variable:update foo \--visible-build
false \--visible-runtime true \`\`\` Note that for changes to project
variables to have effect, you need to
\[redeploy\](../troubleshoot.md#force-a-redeploy) your environments. \##
Create environment-specific variables Set variables for specific
environments using \[the
Console\](../../administration/web/configure-environment.md#variables)
or the CLI. Variables can be inherited or overridden from parent
environments and project variables. See \[more on overriding
values\](./\_index.md#overrides).

:::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Using the CLI
-   In the Console

To create a variable for the current environment, run the following
command:

`upsun variable:create --level environment --name VARIABLE_NAME --value VARIABLE_VALUE`

To specify the environment for the variable, use the `-e` flag to
specify its name. To specify other options, use the [flags for variable
options](#environment-variable-options).

To add a project variable, follow these steps:

1.  Select the project where you want to create a variable.
2.  Click
    ![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
    **Settings**.
3.  Under **Environments**, click the environment where you want to
    create a variable.
4.  Click **Variables**.
5.  Click **+ Create variable**.
6.  Enter a name for the variable.
7.  Enter the variable value.
8.  Ensure you have selected the right [other
    options](#environment-variable-options).
9.  Click **Create variable**.

When naming variables, be sure to take \[variable
prefixes\](./\_index.md#variable-prefixes) into account. In particular,
to expose a variable as its own environment variable, \[use the prefix
\`env:\`\](../../development/variables/\_index.md#top-level-environment-variables).
\### Environment variable options Environment variables share all of the
\[options available for project variables\](#variable-options).
Environment variables have one additional option: \| Option \| CLI flag
\| Default \| Description \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| Inheritable \| \`\--inheritable\` \| \`true\` \| Whether the variable
is inherited by child environments. \| This option is useful for setting
production-only values such as credentials. For example, to set a PayPal
secret value for only the \`main\` branch and have it not be readable
elsewhere, run the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun variable:create
-e main \--name paypal_id \--inheritable false \--sensitive true \`\`\`
Other environments don\'t inherit it and get either a project variable
of the same name if it exists or no value at all. Note that changing an
environment variable causes that environment to be redeployed so the new
value is available. But child environments are \*not\* redeployed. To
make the new value accessible to those environments, \[trigger a
redeploy\](../troubleshoot.md#force-a-redeploy). \### Example
environment variable Environment variables are a good place to store
values that apply only on Upsun and not on your local development
environment. This includes API credentials for third-party services,
mode settings, and which server (development vs. production) to use. One
example would be to define a Node.js application\'s build on a
production branch (\`NODE_ENV=production\`), but use development mode
(\`NODE_ENV=development\`) for each of your preview environments.
Assuming you have a \`main\` environment for production and a
\`staging\` environment with more child environments for development,
run the following commands: \`\`\`bash upsun variable:create -l
environment -e main \--prefix env: \--name NODE_ENV \--value production
\--visible-build true \--inheritable false upsun variable:create -l
environment -e staging \--prefix env: \--name NODE_ENV \--value
development \--visible-build true \--inheritable true \`\`\` Now
\`NODE_ENV\` is \`production\` on the default branch but \`development\`
on \`staging\` and each of its child environments. Note that build
visible environment variables change the application\'s build
configuration ID: value updates trigger a rebuild of the application in
the same way that a commit would. \## Set variables via script You can
also provide a \`.environment\` file as in \[your app
root\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#root-directory).
This file runs as a script in dash when the container starts and on all
SSH logins. It can be used to set any environment variables directly,
such as the PATH variable. For example, the following \`.environment\`
file allows any executable installed in the \`vendor/bin\` directory
(such as executables installed using Composer) to be run regardless of
the current directory: \`\`\`bash {} export PATH=/app/vendor/bin:\$PATH
\`\`\` You can also dynamically define environment variables based on
the current environment. For example, you might want to get the
\[defined route\](../../define-routes/\_index.md) with the id \`api\`
for the current environment. To define it as the \`URL\` environment
variable, you might add something like: \`\`\`bash {} URL=\$(echo
\$PLATFORM_ROUTES \| base64 \--decode \| jq -r \'to_entries\[\] \|
select (.value.id == \"api\") \| .key\') \`\`\` Note that the file is
sourced after all other environment variables above are defined and so
they\'re available to the script. This also means the \`.environment\`
script has the last word on environment variable values and can override
anything it wants to. \### Testing \`.environment\` scripts You may find
that a command that works during an SSH session provides a \`bad
substitution\` error when placed in a \`.environment\` file. Remember,
\`.environment\` is sourced using dash, not bash. When testing your
\`.environment\` logic, be sure to first enter a \`dash\` session in
your terminal or within the SSH session. When testing, you might print
to stdout (using an \`echo\` or \`printf\` command) to check what\'s
happening. The following example looks for a
\`deploy/environment.tracker.txt\` file. It displays a different message
if it\'s found or not, which helps you track what variables are being
set. \`\`\`bash {} if \[ -f \"deploy/environment.tracker.txt\" \]; then
echo \"File found.\" export DEPLOY=\'Friday\' else echo \"File not
found.\" export DEPLOY=\'Never on a Friday\' fi \`\`\` While sanity
checks like this are useful during troubleshooting, you shouldn\'t
include such commands in your final code. Because the \`.environment\`
file is run at the start of an SSH session, the message is printed at
the start of the session. Even when your SSH command executes
successfully, you might later attempt to download data from one of your
mounts, such as by using the CLI command \`upsun mount:download\`. When
you do, you see this error: \`\`\`bash protocol version mismatch \-- is
your shell clean? (see the rsync man page for an explanation) rsync
error: protocol incompatibility (code 2) at \.../rsync/compat.c(61)
\[receiver=2.6.9\] \[ProcessFailedException\] The command failed with
the exit code: 2 \`\`\` This failure comes because \`mount:download\`
and \`rsync\` don\'t expect output when the SSH connection is made. To
solve the issue, remove the printed output from your \`.environment\`
file. \## Map variables If your app needs different names for
environment variable than those set by Upsun, which is common for
database connections, map the Upsun\'s variable names to those required
by the application via a shell script. You can obtain relationship
information through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
For example, if your application has a relationship named
\`\`database\`\` to a database service named \`mariadb\`:

::::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

.environment
`export APP_DATABASE_HOST=${DATABASE_HOST} export APP_DATABASE_USER=${DATABASE_USERNAME}`

This sets environment variables with the names your app needs, and the
values from [service environment
variables](/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables).

It uses the `jq` library, which is included in all app containers for
this purpose.

.environment
`export APP_DATABASE_HOST=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".database[0].host") export APP_DATABASE_USER=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".database[0].username")`

This sets environment variables with names your app needs, and the
values from [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment
variable](/development/variables/use-variables.html#use-provided-variables).

\## Use \`.env\` files Many applications use a \`.env\` file in the
application root for configuration. These are useful for local
development to set variables without needing them to be global across
the development computer. Read more about \[the use cases for \`.env\`
files\](https://platform.sh/blog/2021/we-need-to-talk-about-the-env/).
You shouldn\'t need to use a \`.env\` file in production. Add it to your
\`.gitignore\` file to avoid confusion as its values can vary for each
local developer. #Subscribe to an add-on Depending on your needs, you
may want to upgrade to the following Upsun add-ons. You can do so
directly from the Console. \## Standard User Management add-on \###
Included features The Standard User Management add-on gives you access
to the following features: - \[Free viewers\](../users.md) -
\[Organization permissions\](../users.md#organization-permissions) -
\[Teams\](/administration/teams.md) - \[MFA
enforcement\](/administration/mfa.md) \### Upgrade to the Standard User
Management add-on To upgrade to the Standard User Management add-on,
follow these steps: 1. In the Console, navigate to your organization. 2.
Open the user menu (your name or profile picture), then select
\*\*Billing\*\*. 3. In the \*\*Organization add-ons\*\* section of the
\*\*Overview\*\* tab, locate the \*\*User management\*\* panel and click
\*\*Upgrade\*\*. 4. In the pop-up window, select \*\*Standard user
management\*\* and check the 30-day commitment box. 5. Click
\*\*Upgrade\*\*. After the add-on is added to your organization, you can
remove it from the same location in the \*\*Overview\*\* tab by clicking
\*\*Downgrade\*\*. Once the minimum 30-day commitment period is over,
the add-on is removed from your organization and you are no longer
billed for it. \## Continuous Profiling add-on \### Included features By
default, Upsun offers 15 minutes of continuous profiling per project and
for free. When you upgrade to the continuous profiling add-on, you get
30 days of continuous profiling per project for a fixed fee. For more
information on incurred costs, see the \[Upsun pricing
page\](https://upsun.com/pricing/). \### Upgrade to the Continuous
Profiling add-on To upgrade to this add-on, follow these steps: 1. In
the Console, navigate to your organization. 2. Open the user menu (your
name or profile picture), then select \*\*Billing\*\*. 3. In the
\*\*Overview\*\* tab, find the project on which you want to activate
full continuous profiling. 4. Click
\*\*![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2Zz48dGl0bGU+TW9yZTwvdGl0bGU+CiAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDYuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDYuNSAxMy41IDUuODI4NDMgMTMuNSA1QzEzLjUgNC4xNzE1NyAxMi44Mjg0IDMuNSAxMiAzLjVDMTEuMTcxNiAzLjUgMTAuNSA0LjE3MTU3IDEwLjUgNUMxMC41IDUuODI4NDMgMTEuMTcxNiA2LjUgMTIgNi41WiIgLz4KICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICA8cGF0aCBkPSJNMTIgMTMuNUMxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTMuNSAxMi44Mjg0IDEzLjUgMTJDMTMuNSAxMS4xNzE2IDEyLjgyODQgMTAuNSAxMiAxMC41QzExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMC41IDExLjE3MTYgMTAuNSAxMkMxMC41IDEyLjgyODQgMTEuMTcxNiAxMy41IDEyIDEzLjVaIiAvPgogICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgICAgIDxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xMiAyMC41QzEyLjgyODQgMjAuNSAxMy41IDE5LjgyODQgMTMuNSAxOUMxMy41IDE4LjE3MTYgMTIuODI4NCAxNy41IDEyIDE3LjVDMTEuMTcxNiAxNy41IDEwLjUgMTguMTcxNiAxMC41IDE5QzEwLjUgMTkuODI4NCAxMS4xNzE2IDIwLjUgMTIgMjAuNVoiIC8+PC9zdmc+)
More\*\* next to that project. 5. Click \*\*Project billing\*\*. 3. In
the \*\*Project add-ons\*\* section, locate the \*\*Continuous
profiling\*\* panel and click \*\*Enable\*\*. 5. To confirm, click
\*\*Enable\*\*. #Timezones On Upsun, there are several timezones you
might want to keep in mind. All timezones default to UTC time. You can
customize some of them, but in most cases, it\'s best if you leave them
in UTC and store user data with an associated timezone instead. The
different timezones on Upsun are the following: \| Timezone \|
Description \|Customizable \|
\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|
\| Container timezone \| The timezone for all Upsun containers (UTC).
\|No \| \| App runtime timezone \| \[Set an app runtime
timezone\](#set-an-app-runtime-timezone) if you want your app runtime to
use a specific timezone instead of the container timezone.\
The app runtime timezone only affects your app itself. \| Yes \| \| Cron
timezone \| \[Set a cron timezone\](#set-a-cron-timezone) if you want
your crons to run in a specific timezone instead of the app runtime
timezone (or instead of the container timezone if no app runtime
timezone is set on your project).\
The cron timezone only affects your cron jobs. \| Yes \| \| Log timezone
\| The timezone for all Upsun logs (UTC). \| No \|

### Note

Each Upsun project also has a **project timezone** that only affects
[automated backups](/environments/backup.html#automated-backups). By
default, the project timezone is based on the region where your project
is hosted. You can change it from the Console at any time.

\## Set an app runtime timezone How you can set an app runtime timezone
depends on your actual app runtime:

:::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   PHP
-   Node.js
-   Python
-   Java

Add the following to your app configuration:

.upsun/config.yaml
`applications: # The name of the app container. Must be unique within a project. myapp: # The location of the application's code. source: root: "myapp" variables: php: "date.timezone": "Europe/Paris"`Start
the server with `env TZ=’TIMEZONE’ node server.js`.Start the server with
`env TZ=’TIMEZONE’ python server.py`.

-   Start the server with `env TZ=’TIMEZONE’ java -jar …` OR.
-   Set the Java virtual machine argument `user.timezone`. This Java
    virtual machine argument takes precedence over the environment
    variable TZ. For example, you can use the flag `-D` when running the
    application: `java -jar -D user.timezone=GMT` or
    `java -jar -D user.timezone="Asia/Kolkata"`

\## Set a cron timezone You can set a specific timezone for your crons
so they don\'t run in your app runtime timezone (or container timezone
if no app runtime timezone is set on your project). To do so, \[set the
\`timezone\` top-level
property\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#primary-application-properties)
in your app configuration. #Troubleshoot disks For more general
information, see how to \[troubleshoot
development\](/development/troubleshoot). \## Low disk space If you have
set up \[health notifications\](../integrations/notifications.md), you
may receive a notification of low disk space. To solve this issue: \*
\[Check mount usage\](./troubleshoot-mounts.md#disk-space-issues) \*
\[Check your database disk space\](#check-your-database-disk-space) (if
applicable) \* \[Increase the available disk
space\](#increase-available-disk-space) (if necessary) \### Check your
database disk space To get approximate disk usage for a database, run
the command \`upsun db:size\`. This returns an estimate such as the
following: \`\`\`text
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| Allocated disk \| Estimated usage \| % used \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\| 1.0 GiB \| 520.3 MiB \| \~ 51% \|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+
\`\`\` Keep in mind that this estimate doesn\'t represent the exact real
size on disk. But if you notice that the usage percentage is high, you
may need to increase the available space. \### Increase available disk
space If you find that your application or service is running out of
disk space, you can increase the available storage. To increase the
space available for applications and services, use the \`upsun
resources:set\` command. For more information, see how to \[manage
resources\](/manage-resources.md). \## No space left on device During
the \`build\` hook, you may see the following error: \`\`\`text W:
\[Errno 28\] No space left on device: \... \`\`\` This is caused by the
amount of disk provided to the build container before deployment.
Application images are restricted to 8 GB during build, no matter how
much writable disk has been set aside for the deployed application. Some
build tools (yarn/npm) store cache for different versions of their
modules. This can cause the build cache to grow over time beyond the
maximum. Try \[clearing the build
cache\](../development/troubleshoot.md#clear-the-build-cache) and
\[triggering a
redeploy\](../development/troubleshoot.md#force-a-redeploy). If for some
reason your application absolutely requires more than 8 GB during build,
you can open a \[support ticket\](/learn/overview/get-support) to have
this limit increased. #Troubleshoot mounts For more general information,
see how to \[troubleshoot development\](/development/troubleshoot). \##
Overlapping folders If you have a mount with the same name as a
directory you\'ve committed to Git or you create such a directory during
the build, you get a message like the following: \`\`\`bash W: The mount
\'/example\' has a path that overlaps with a non-empty folder. The
content of the non-empty folder either comes from: - your git repository
(you may have accidentally committed files). - or from the build hook.
Please be aware that this content isn\'t accessible at runtime. \`\`\`
This shows that the files in Git or from your build aren\'t available
after the build. The only files that are available are those in your
mount. To make the files available in the mount, move them away and then
copy them into the mount: 1. In the \`build\` hook, use \`mv\` to move
the files to another location. \`\`\`bash mv example tmp/example \`\`\`
2. In the \`deploy\` hook, use \`cp\` to copy the files into the mount.
\`\`\`bash cp -r tmp/example example \`\`\` To see the files without
copying them, temporarily remove the mount from your app configuration.
Then SSH into your app and view the files. You can then put the mount
back in place. \## Mounted files not publicly accessible If you\'ve set
up mounts to handle files like user uploads, you want to make sure the
files are accessible. Do so by managing their
\[location\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#locations).
This example defines two mounts, one named \`private\` and one
\`upload\`: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: mounts: \'private\':
source: storage source_path: private \'uploads\': source: storage
source_path: uploads \`\`\` With only this definition, their behavior is
the same. To make \`uploads\` accessible, define a location with
different rules as in the following example: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: web: locations: \'/\': \# Handle dynamic requests root:
\'public\' passthru: \'/app.php\' \# Allow uploaded files to be served,
but don\'t run scripts. \'/uploads\': root: \'uploads\' expires: 300s
scripts: false allow: true \`\`\` \## Mounts starting with a dot ignored
Upsun ignores YAML keys that start with a dot. This causes a mount like
\`.myhiddenfolder\` to be ignored. To mount a directory starting with a
dot, put a \`/\` at the start of its definition: \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: myapp: web: mounts: \'/.myhiddenfolder\': source: storage
source_path: \'myhiddenfolder\' \`\`\` \## Disk space issues If you are
worried about how much disk your mounts are using, check the size with
the following command: \`\`\`bash upsun resources:get \`\`\`
#Troubleshoot MySQL For more general information, see how to
\[troubleshoot development\](/development/troubleshoot). \## Lock wait
timeout If a process running in your application acquired a lock from
MySQL for a long period of time, you receive MySQL error messages like
this: \`\`\`sql SQLSTATE\[HY000\]: General error: 1205 Lock wait timeout
exceeded; \`\`\` This is typically caused by one of the following: \*
There are multiple places acquiring locks in different order. For
example, code path 1 first locks record A and then locks record B, while
code path 2 first locks record B and then locks record A. \* There is a
long running background process executed by your application that holds
the lock until it ends. If you\'re using \[MariaDB 10+\](./\_index.md),
use the SQL query \`SHOW FULL PROCESSLIST \\G\` to list DB queries
waiting for locks. To determine where to debug, find output like the
following: \`\`\`sql \< skipped \> Command: Query Time: \... State:
Waiting for table metadata lock Info: SELECT \... \< skipped \> \`\`\`
To find active background processes, run \`ps aufx\` on your application
container. Make sure that locks are acquired in a pre-defined order and
released as soon as possible. \## Definer/invoker of view lack rights to
use them There is a single MySQL user, so you can not use \"DEFINER\"
Access Control mechanism for Stored Programs and Views. When creating a
\`VIEW\`, you may need to explicitly set the \`SECURITY\` parameter to
\`INVOKER\`: \`\`\`sql CREATE OR REPLACE SQL SECURITY INVOKER VIEW
\`view_name\` AS SELECT \`\`\` \## Server has gone away \### Disk space
issues Errors such as \`PDO Exception \'MySQL server has gone away\'\`
are usually the result of exhausting your available disk space. Get an
estimate of current disk usage using the CLI command \`upsun db:size\`.
Just keep in mind it\'s an estimate and not exact. Allocate more space
to the service by running the \`upsun resources:set\` command. For more
information, see how to \[manage resources\](/manage-resources.md). As
table space can grow rapidly, it\'s usually advisable to make your
database mount size twice the size reported by the \`db:size\` command.
You may want to add a \[low-disk
warning\](../../integrations/notifications.md#low-disk-warning) to learn
about low disk space before it becomes an issue. \### Packet size
limitations \`MySQL server has gone away\` errors may be caused by the
size of the database packets. If so, the logs may show warnings like
\`Error while sending QUERY packet\` before the error. One way to
resolve the issue is to use the \[\`max_allowed_packet\`
parameter\](./\_index.md#configure-the-database). \### Worker timeout
\`MySQL server has gone away\` errors may be caused by server timeouts.
MySQL has a built-in timeout for idle connections, which defaults to 10
minutes. Most typical web connections end long before that\'s ever
approached, but a long-running worker may idle and not need the database
for longer than the timeout, leading to a \"server has gone away\"
message. The best approach is to wrap your connection logic in code that
detects a \"server has gone away\" exception and tries to re-establish
the connection. Alternatively, if your worker is idle for too long it
can self-terminate. Upsun automatically restarts the worker process and
the new process can establish a new database connection. \## Too many
connections You may get the following \[error
message\](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/e1040/): \`Error 1040: Too many
connections\`. A common way to solve this issue is to increase the
\`max_connections\` property in your MariaDB service configuration.
However, on Upsun, you \*\*cannot\*\* configure \`max_connections\`
directly. \### Quick fix You cannot configure \`max_connections\`
directly in Upsun service configurations. However, to solve \`Error
1040\`, you can increase \`max_connections\` indirectly. Given the
following services configuration for MariaDB: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \#
The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project.
mariadb: type: mariadb:11.4 configuration: properties:
max_allowed_packet: 16 \`\`\` And assuming you have set the resources
for that service using the following CLI command: \`\`\`bash upsun
resources:set \--size mariadb:1 \`\`\` \`max_connections\` in this case
is \`332\` as \[set by Upsun\](#how-it-works): To \*\*increase\*\*
\`max_connections\`, you can \*\*either\*\*: - \*\*decrease\*\*
\`max_allowed_packet\` (for example, \`16\` → \`15\` results in
\`max_connections=355\`) - or \*\*increase\*\* \`size\` using the
\`resources:set\` command (for example, \`1\` → \`2\` results in
\`max_connections=500\`) \### How it works Behind the scenes,
\`max_connections\` is calculated from values that you \_can\_
change: 1. \*\*\`max_allowed_packet\`\*\*: \`max_allowed_packet\` is
\[directly configurable\](/add-services/mysql#configure-the-database) in
your \`.upsun/config.yaml\` file with an integer value. The default
value of \`16\` is shown below to illustrate: \`\`\`yaml {} services: \#
The name of the service container. Must be unique within a project.
mariadb: type: mariadb:11.4 configuration: properties:
max_allowed_packet: 16 \`\`\` 1. \*\*The memory available to the
service\*\*: Resources are provisioned to Upsun containers according to
your definition via the API, often through the \`resources:set\` CLI
command: \`\`\`bash upsun resources:set \--size mariadb:1 \`\`\` The
memory for a given container from its \`size\` depends on its
\[container
profile\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources#advanced-container-profiles).
For example,
\[MariaDB\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources#default-container-profiles)
has a \`HIGH_MEMORY\` \[container
profile\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources#advanced-container-profiles).
For \`\--size mariadb:1\`, it means 1 CPU and 2432 MB of memory. If we
assume the configuration above, where: - \`\--size mariadb:1\`, which we
know is \`2432\` MB, referred to below as \`application_size\` -
\`mariadb.configuration.properties.max_allowed_packet: 16\` - You are
using the default \`HIGH_MEMORY\` profile assigned to MariaDB
containers. \[Changing the container
profile\](/manage-resources/adjust-resources#adjust-a-container-profile)
changes the behavior below. \`max_allowed_packet\` is \`332\`, which is
determined by Upsun according to: \\begin{aligned}
\\texttt{max_connections} = \\text{int}\\Biggl\[ \\min \\left(
\\frac{\\texttt{FREE_MEMORY}}{\\texttt{max_allowed_packet}}, 500
\\right) \\Biggr\] \\end{aligned} This calculation uses three additional
calculations: \\begin{aligned} \\texttt{FREE_MEMORY} =
\\texttt{AVAILABLE_MEMORY} - \\left( 50 +
\\texttt{innodb_buffer_pool_size} \\right) \\newline \\newline
\\texttt{AVAILABLE_MEMORY} = (\\texttt{application_size} \* 2) + 512
\\newline \\newline \\texttt{innodb_buffer_pool_size} =
\\frac{\\text{int}\\left( 0.75 \\cdot \\texttt{application_size}
\\right)}{1024\^{2}} \\end{aligned} So for our current example, where:
\\begin{aligned} \\texttt{application_size} = 2432 \\newline
\\texttt{max_allowed_packet} = 16 \\end{aligned} You get:
\\begin{aligned} \\texttt{innodb_buffer_pool_size} =
\\frac{\\text{int}\\left( 0.75 \\cdot \\texttt{application_size}
\\right)}{1024\^{2}} = \\frac{\\text{int}\\left( 0.75 \\cdot
\\texttt{1280} \\right)}{1024\^{2}} \\approx 1.7395 \\times 10\^{-3}
\\end{aligned} \\begin{aligned} \\texttt{AVAILABLE_MEMORY} =
(\\texttt{application_size} \* 2) + 512 = (1280 \* 2) + 512 = 5376
\\end{aligned} \\begin{aligned} \\texttt{FREE_MEMORY} =
\\texttt{AVAILABLE_MEMORY} - \\left( 50 +
\\texttt{innodb_buffer_pool_size} \\right) \\newline \\newline
\\texttt{FREE_MEMORY} = 3072 - \\left( 50 + 0.0009155\... \\right) =
5325.998\... \\end{aligned} \\begin{aligned} \\texttt{max_connections} =
\\text{int}\\Biggl\[ \\min \\left(
\\frac{\\texttt{FREE_MEMORY}}{\\texttt{max_allowed_packet}}, 500
\\right) \\Biggr\] = \\text{int}\\Biggl\[ \\min \\left(
\\frac{3021.999084}{16}, 500 \\right) \\Biggr\] = \\text{int}\\Biggl\[
332.87\... \\Biggr\] \\end{aligned} \\begin{aligned}
\\texttt{max_connections} = 332 \\end{aligned} The following table
provides additional example calculations of \`max_connections\` for all
\`size\` settings and for a number of \`max_allow_packet\` settings.

  ------------------- ----------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------
  MariaDB             **`application_size`\                                                    
  `max_connections`   \                                                                        
                      `size` (memory in MB)**                                                  

  **0.1 (448 MB)**    **0.25 (832 MB)**       **0.5   **1     **2     **4     **6     **8      
                                              (1408   (2432   (4032   (6720   (9024   (11200   
                                              MB)**   MB)**   MB)**   MB)**   MB)**   MB)**    

  **1\                *500*                   *500*   *500*   *500*   *500*   *500*   *500*    *500*
  (min)**                                                                                      

  **2**               *500*                   *500*   *500*   *500*   *500*   *500*   *500*    *500*

  **8**               169                     265     409     *500*   *500*   *500*   *500*    *500*

  **16\               84                      132     204     332     *500*   *500*   *500*    *500*
  (default)**                                                                                  

  **32**              42                      66      102     166     266     434     *500*    *500*

  **64**              21                      33      51      83      133     217     289      357

  **100\              13                      21      32      53      85      139     185      228
  (max)**                                                                                      
  ------------------- ----------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------

### Note

The maximum value for `max_connections` is 500, indicated with
italicized integers in the table.

Also, you can **increase** `max_connections` in your environments by
either:

-   **decreasing** the `max_allow_packet` value in your service
    configuration
-   or **increasing** the service's resources by using the CLI command
    `resources:set` and the `--size` flag

#Troubleshoot PHP

### Note

You can now use composable image (BETA) to install runtimes and tools in
your application container. To find out more, see the dedicated
documentation page.

For more general information, see how to \[troubleshoot
development\](/development/troubleshoot). \## Server reached
\`max_children\` If the server is receiving more concurrent requests
than it has PHP processes allocated, you encounter a message like the
following: \`\`\`text {} WARNING: \[pool web\] server reached
max_children setting (2), consider raising it \`\`\` This means some
requests have to wait until another finishes. Upsun sets the number of
workers based on the available memory of your container and the
estimated average memory size of each process. You have two ways to
increase the number of workers: - Adjust the \[worker sizing
hints\](./fpm.md) for your project. - Add \[additional
resources\](/manage-resources.md) with the \`upsun resources:set\`
command \## Execution timeout If your PHP app can\'t handle the amount
of traffic or is slow, you encounter a message like the following:
\`\`\`text {} WARNING: \[pool web\] child 120, script
\'/app/public/index.php\' (request: \"GET /index.php\") execution timed
out (358.009855 sec), terminating \`\`\` This means your PHP process is
running longer than allowed. You can adjust the \`max_execution_time\`
value in \`php.ini\`, but there is still a hard cap of 5 minutes on any
web request. The most common causes of a timeout are an infinite loop
(which is a bug that you should fix) or the work itself requires a long
time to complete. For the latter case, you should consider putting the
task into a background job. The following command identifies the 20
slowest requests in the past hour, which can provide an indication of
what code paths to investigate. \`\`\`bash grep \$(date +%Y-%m-%dT%H
\--date=\'-1 hours\') /var/log/php.access.log \| sort -k 4 -r -n \| head
-20 \`\`\` If you see that the processing time of certain requests is
slow (such as taking longer than 1000 ms), you should consider a
\[continuous observability
solution\](../../increase-observability/application-metrics/\_index.md)
to monitor your app and help you improve the performance issue. Full
access to
\[Blackfire.io\](../../increase-observability/application-metrics/blackfire.md)
is bundled with your PHP and Python Upsun projects. Otherwise, you may
check if the following options are applicable: - Find the most visited
pages and see if they can be cached and/or put behind a CDN. Refer to
\[how caching works\](../../define-routes/cache.md). - Add \[additional
resources\](/manage-resources.md) with the \`upsun resources:set\`
command \## Troubleshoot a crashed PHP process If your PHP process
crashed with a segmentation fault, you encounter a message like the
following: \`\`\`text {} WARNING: \[pool web\] child 112 exited on
signal 11 (SIGSEGV) after 7.405936 seconds from start \`\`\` Either a
PHP extension is hitting a segmentation fault or your PHP app code is
crashing. Review recent changes in your app and try to find the root
cause. You might want to use a tool such as \[Xdebug\](./xdebug.md) for
quicker troubleshooting. \## Troubleshoot a killed PHP process If your
PHP process is killed by the kernel, you encounter a message like the
following: \`\`\`text {} WARNING: \[pool web\] child 429 exited on
signal 9 (SIGKILL) after 50.938617 seconds from start \`\`\` That means
the memory usage of your container exceeds the limit that\'s been
allocated, so the kernel kills the offending process. To solve this
issue, try the following approaches: - Check if the memory usage of your
app is as expected and try to optimize it. - Use \[sizing
hints\](./fpm.md) to reduce the amount of PHP workers, which reduces the
memory footprint. - Add \[additional resources\](/manage-resources.md)
with the \`upsun resources:set\` command \## Restart PHP processes stuck
during a build or deployment If your \[build or deployment is running
longer than
expected\](../../development/troubleshoot.md#stuck-build-or-deployment),
it might be because of a PHP process getting stuck. To restart your PHP
processes, run the following command in your app container: \`\`\`bash
pkill -f php-fpm \`\`\` \## Resource temporarily unavailable If all PHP
workers are busy, you encounter a message like the following: \`\`\`text
{} connect() to unix:/run/app.sock failed (11: Resource temporarily
unavailable) \`\`\` This can be because too many requests are coming in
at once or the requests are taking too long to be processed (such as
with calls to external third-party servers without timeouts). To address
the issue, you can: - Lower the memory consumption of each request so
that the amount of PHP workers gets automatically raised. This can be
customized with the \`runtime.sizing_hints.request_memory\` key in your
\`.upsun/config.yaml\` file. For more details, consult \[PHP-FPM
sizing\](./fpm.md). - Add a \[CDN\](../../domains/cdn/\_index.md). - Set
up \[HTTP caching\](/learn/bestpractices/http-caching.md). - Follow the
global \[performance tuning recommendations\](./tuning.md). - Remove
stale plugins and extensions when using a CMS. - Add \[additional
resources\](/manage-resources.md) with the \`upsun resources:set\`
command #Troubleshoot SSH While trying to use SSH, you may get a
response indicating permission is denied. Or if you get an error with a
code of 255, it means there\'s a problem with your SSH connection.
\`\`\`txt The command failed with the exit code: 255 \`\`\` There are
several places to check to try to solve such issues. \## Check your
environment If your environment is
\[inactive\](/glossary.md#inactive-environment) or the deployment has
failed, you can\'t log in to it. To make sure the environment is active
and the deployment has succeeded, check it using \`upsun
environment:list\` or in the \[Console\](https://console.platform.sh/) .
\## Redeploy your environment If you have just added your SSH key or
made changes to \[access rules\](/administration/users.md), you need to
redeploy your environment before you can access it using SSH keys. You
can do this in the \[Console\](https://console.platform.sh/), by running
\`upsun redeploy\`, or by pushing an empty git commit: \`\`\`bash git
commit \--allow-empty -m \'chore: force redeploy\' git push origin main
\`\`\` \## Check your public key Make sure your public key has been
uploaded to your user account. Check it in the \[Upsun
Console\](https://console.platform.sh/). \## SSH key can not be
duplicated A given SSH key pair can only be linked to a single user
account. If you add an already used SSH key to another account, you see
the error: \`SSH key can not be duplicated\`. \[Generate a new pair of
SSH keys\](/development/ssh/ssh-keys#add-ssh-keys) for the second user
account you want to add. \## Check your SSH agent Check that your key is
properly added to your SSH agent. This is an authentication agent that
manages your private key. 1. Run \`ssh-add -l\` in your terminal:
\`\`\`bash ssh-add -l \`\`\` You get output similar to the following:
\`\`\`bash 2048 12:b0:13:83:7f:56:18:9b:78:ca:54:90:a7:ff:12:69
/Users/your_username/.ssh/id_rsa (RSA) \`\`\` 1. Check that the file
exists and that the file name or comment matches your private key
file. 1. If you don\'t see your private key file, add your private key:
\`\`\`bash ssh-add path-to-your-key \`\`\` \## Specify your identity
file If your identity (SSH key) associated with Upsun isn\'t in a
default file name (as may be explained in your SSH software manual, for
example), you may have to append a specification like the one below so
that the SSH software finds the correct key. \`\`\`bash Host platform.sh
IdentityFile \~/.ssh/id_upsun \`\`\` Be aware that, above, \`upsun\`
stands for a hostname. Each different hostname you connect to Upsun at
may have to be specified in the host line, separated by spaces. \##
Check your Git integrations If your project is integrated with another
Git provider (such as GitHub), that provider controls Git operations.
Make sure you have added your public SSH key to your provider and that
your user there has access. \## Generate SSH debug information If your
private key and public key both look OK but you don\'t have any luck
logging in, print debugging information. These lines often give clues
about what\'s going wrong. Run the SSH command with the \`-v\` option,
like so: \`\`\`bash ssh -v \[SSH-URL\] \`\`\` You get output similar to
the following: \`\`\`bash OpenSSH_6.7.8, OpenSSL 1.2.3 1 Sep 2014
debug1: Connecting to ssh.eu.upsun.com \[54.32.10.98\] port 22. debug1:
Connection established. debug1: identity file
/Users/your_username/.ssh/id_rsa type 1 \...(many more lines of this
light reading)\... debug1: Offering RSA public key:
/Users/your_username/.ssh/id_rsa debug1: Authentications that can
continue: publickey debug1: No more authentication methods to try.
Permission denied (publickey). \`\`\` Alternatively, you can run the
following command: \`\`\`bash GIT_SSH\_ git clone REPO_URL \`\`\` You
can use this information to make one last check of the private key file.
\## MFA-related error message If you haven\'t enabled MFA on your user
account and try to SSH into an environment that is protected by MFA, you
get the following error message: \`\`\`bash Error: Access denied
Service: abcdefg123456-main-bvxea6i\--app User: USER NAME (USER ID)
Parameters: {\"amr\":\[\"mfa\"\]} Detail: Additional authentication is
required: - Multi-factor authentication (MFA) \`\`\` To solve this,
\[enable MFA on your user
account\](../../administration/mfa.md#enable-mfa-on-your-user-account).
Alternatively, open the Console and select the desired organization.
Follow the instructions so you can effectively access its contents.
Similarly for bot users and CLI tokens, you may see the message:
\`\`\`bash \[RequestException\] Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is
required. The API token may need to be re-created after enabling MFA.
\`\`\` In this case, as described, it will be necessary to: 1. Enable
MFA on the (bot) user account associated with the token. 2. Generate a
new access token, and then replace its value in your workflow that
requires the token (such as updating a GitHub workflow secret variable).
\## Something still wrong? For more general information, see how to
\[troubleshoot development\](/development/troubleshoot). If you\'re
still stuck, open a \[support ticket\](/learn/overview/get-support) and
provide the full SSH debug information. #Understand {{\< vendor/name
\>}} metrics Upsun environments consist of: \* App containers: one or
more \[app containers\](/create-apps/\_index.md) \* Service containers:
zero or more \[service containers\](../../add-services/\_index.md) \*
Worker containers: zero or more \[worker
instances\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#workers).
Infrastructure metrics report CPU, RAM, and disk space for app, service,
and worker containers. These metrics are available for all of your
environments. App containers are shown first, with the app name and an
image corresponding to the app type. Service containers follow next with
the same pattern, and worker containers are shown last. You can collapse
the graphs by clicking the 3-dot menu on the right-hand side, then
\*\*Hide resources\*\*. The graphs switch to an overview of the average
resource utilization for the selected container. \![How service
container metrics look when
minimized\](/images/observability/metrics/service-container-minimized.png
\"0.65\") The same menu provides a convenient \*\*Configure resource\*\*
CTA, allowing you to swiftly adjust resources allocation for that
container based on the observability metrics. \## Example of how to read
metrics This example should give you an idea of how the metrics appear.
Environment metrics show resource usage for each app, service, and
worker container. This reference project has a single app, two services
(MySQL and Redis), and two workers. The appropriate resources have been
\[manually allocated\](/manage-resources.md) for each container. The
graphs show the current average usage in relation to the resources
allocated to each container. By default, the graphs include all
instances and an average over the instances. To select metrics for
specific instances, click \*\*Filter\*\*. \![Clicking Filter reveals a
list of instances you can
filter\](/images/observability/filtering-upsun.png \"0.4\") \### App
container Metrics graphs for the app container show CPU, RAM, and disk
allocation and usage. The persistent disk has been configured in the
\[project resources\](/manage-resources.md). \![All of the metrics for
the app container\](/images/metrics/app-container.png) \### Service
containers Metrics graphs for the service containers show CPU, RAM, and
disk allocation and usage. \#### MySQL Metrics graphs for the MySQL
service container show CPU, RAM, and disk allocation and usage. The
persistent disk has been configured in the \[project
resources\](/manage-resources.md). \![All of the metrics for the MySQL
container\](/images/observability/metrics/mysql-container.png) \####
Redis Metrics graphs for the Redis service container show CPU, RAM, disk
allocation and usage. No persistent disk has been configured for Redis.
\![All of the metrics for the Redis
container\](/images/observability/metrics/redis-container.png) \###
Worker containers Metrics graphs for the App-Horizon worker container
show CPU, RAM, and disk allocation and usage. The persistent disk has
been configured in the \[project resources\](/manage-resources.md).
\![All of the metrics for the App-Horizon worker
container\](/images/metrics/horizon-worker-container.png) Metrics graphs
for the App-Schedule worker container show CPU, RAM, and disk allocation
and usage. The persistent disk has been configured in the \[project
resources\](/manage-resources.md). \![All of the metrics for the
App-Horizon worker
container\](/images/metrics/schedule-worker-container.png) #Use hooks
with dependencies If you use a specific package in a hook, you may want
to manage dependencies for it. For example, you may want to compile Sass
files as part of your build process. You can set dependencies along with
hooks in your \[app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#dependencies).
The following example assumes you have some Sass source files, such as a
\`index.scss\` file. You also need a script to compile the files, such
as the following: \`\`\`json {} { \"scripts\": { \"build-css\": \"sass
index.scss css/index.css\" }, } \`\`\` Set your app configuration to
have Sass available globally and use it: \`\`\`yaml {} applications:
myapp: \# Ensure sass is available globally dependencies: nodejs: sass:
\"\^1.47.0\" hooks: \# Run the script defined in package.json build: \|
npm run build-css \`\`\` #Use variables Get a list of all variables
defined on a given environment in \[the
Console\](../../administration/web/configure-environment.md#variables)
or use the CLI: \`\`\`bash upsun var \`\`\` You get output similar to
the following: \`\`\`bash Variables on the project Example
(abcdef123456), environment main:
+\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+ \| Name
\| Level \| Value \| Enabled \|
+\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+ \| foo
\| project \| bar \| true \|
+\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\--+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--+ \`\`\`
\## Access variables in a shell Project and environment variables with
the \[prefix\](./\_index.md#top-level-environment-variables) \`env:\`
are available as Unix environment variables in all caps. Access these
variables and Upsun-provided variables directly like this: \`\`\`bash
echo \$FOO bar echo \$PLATFORM_APPLICATION_NAME Sample Project \`\`\`
Other project and environment variables are listed together in the
\`PLATFORM_VARIABLES\` variable as a base64-encoded JSON object. Access
them like this: \`\`\`bash echo \$PLATFORM_VARIABLES \| base64 \--decode
{\"theanswer\": \"42\"} \`\`\` You can also get the value for a single
variable within the array, such as with this command, which uses the
\[\`jq\` processor\](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/): \`\`\`bash echo
\$PLATFORM_VARIABLES \| base64 \--decode \| jq \'.theanswer\' \"42\"
\`\`\` Variable availability depends on the type and configuration.
Variables available during builds can be accessed in \`build\` hooks and
those available at runtime can be accessed in \`deploy\` hooks. \##
Access variables in your app To access environment variables in your
app, use a built-in method for the given language. \* PHP: The
\[\`getenv()\`
function\](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.getenv.php) \* Python:
The \[\`os.environ\`
object\](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html#os.environ) \*
Node.js: The \[\`process.env\`
object\](https://nodejs.org/api/process.html#process_process_env) \*
Ruby: The \[\`ENV\` accessor\](https://ruby-doc.org/current/ENV.html) \*
Java: The \[\`System.getenv()\`
method\](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/System.html#getenv-java.lang.String-)

::::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   PHP
-   Python
-   Node.js
-   Ruby
-   Java

`<?php // A simple variable. $projectId = getenv('PLATFORM_PROJECT'); // An encoded JSON object. $variables = json_decode(base64_decode(getenv('PLATFORM_VARIABLES')), TRUE);`
`import os import json import base64 # A simple variable. project_id = os.getenv('PLATFORM_PROJECT') # An encoded JSON object. variables = json.loads(base64.b64decode(os.getenv('PLATFORM_VARIABLES')).decode('utf-8'))`
`` const { env } = process; // Utility to assist in decoding a packed JSON variable. function read_base64_json(varName) { try { return JSON.parse(Buffer.from(env[varName], "base64").toString()); } catch (err) { throw new Error(`no ${varName} environment variable`); } }; // A simple variable. const projectId = env.PLATFORM_PROJECT; // An encoded JSON object. const variables = read_base64_json('PLATFORM_VARIABLES'); ``
`# A simple variable. project_id = ENV["PLATFORM_PROJECT"] || nil # An encoded JSON object. variables = JSON.parse(Base64.decode64(ENV["PLATFORM_VARIABLES"]))`
`import com.fasterxml.jackson.databind.ObjectMapper; import java.io.IOException; import java.util.Base64; import java.util.Map; import static java.lang.System.getenv; import static java.util.Base64.getDecoder; public class App { public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException { // A simple variable. final String project = getenv("PLATFORM_PROJECT"); // An encoded JSON object. ObjectMapper mapper = new ObjectMapper(); final Map<String, Object> variables = mapper.readValue( String.valueOf(getDecoder().decode(getenv("PLATFORM_VARIABLES"))), Map.class); } }`
\### Access complex values Variables can have nested structures. The
following example shows nested structures in an \[app
configuration\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#variables):
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: APP_NAME: variables: env: BASIC: \"a
string\" INGREDIENTS: - \'peanut butter\' - \'jelly\' QUANTITIES:
\"milk\": \"1 liter\" \"cookies\": \"1 kg\" stuff: STEPS: \[\'one\',
\'two\', \'three\'\] COLORS: red: \'#FF0000\' green: \'#00FF00\' blue:
\'#0000FF\' \`\`\` You can access these nested variables as follows:

:::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Shell
-   PHP
-   Python
-   Node.js

`echo $BASIC a string echo $INGREDIENTS ["peanut butter", "jelly"] echo $QUANTITIES {"cookies": "1 kg", "milk": "1 liter"} echo "$PLATFORM_VARIABLES" | base64 --decode | jq '."stuff:STEPS"' [ "one", "two", "three" ] echo "$PLATFORM_VARIABLES" | base64 --decode | jq '."stuff:COLORS"' { "blue": "#0000FF", "green": "#00FF00", "red": "#FF0000" }`
`<?php var_dump($_ENV['BASIC']); // string(8) "a string" var_dump($_ENV['INGREDIENTS']); // string(26) "["peanut butter", "jelly"]" var_dump($_ENV['QUANTITIES']); // string(38) "{"milk": "1 liter", "cookies": "1 kg"}" $variables = json_decode(base64_decode($_ENV['PLATFORM_VARIABLES']), TRUE); print_r($variables['stuff:STEPS']); /* array(3) { [0]=> string(2) "one" [1]=> string(4) "two" [2]=> string(5) "three" } */ print_r($variables['stuff:COLORS']); /* array(3) { ["red"]=> string(7) "#FF0000" ["green"]=> string(7) "#00FF00" ["blue"]=> string(7) "#0000FF" } */`
`import os import json import base64 print os.getenv('BASIC') # a string print os.getenv('INGREDIENTS') # ["peanut butter", "jelly"] print os.getenv('QUANTITIES') # {"milk": "1 liter", "cookies": "1 kg"} variables = json.loads(base64.b64decode(os.getenv('PLATFORM_VARIABLES')).decode('utf-8')) print variables['stuff:STEPS'] # [u'one', u'two', u'three'] print variables['stuff:COLORS'] # {u'blue': u'#0000FF', u'green': u'#00FF00', u'red': u'#FF0000'}`
`scriptconst { BASIC, INGREDIENTS, QUANTITIES, PLATFORM_VARIABLES } = process.env; const { "stuff:STEPS": stuffSteps, "stuff:COLORS": stuffColors } = JSON.parse( Buffer.from(PLATFORM_VARIABLES, "base64").toString() ); console.log(BASIC); // "a string" console.log(INGREDIENTS); // ["peanut butter", "jelly"] console.log(QUANTITIES); // {"cookies": "1 kg", "milk": "1 liter"} console.log(stuffSteps); // [ 'one', 'two', 'three' ] console.log(stuffColors); // { blue: '#0000FF', green: '#00FF00', red: '#FF0000' }`
\## Use provided variables Upsun also provides a series of variables to
inform your app about its runtime configuration. They\'re mostly
prefixed with \`PLATFORM\_\` to differentiate them from user-provided
values. You can\'t set or update them directly. The following table
presents all available variables and whether they\'re available at build
time (during \[build
hooks\](../../administration/../create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#build-hook))
and at runtime. \| Variable name \| Build \| Runtime \| Description \|
\| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-- \|
\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- \| \| \`PLATFORM_APP_DIR\` \| Yes
\| Yes \| The absolute path to the app directory. \| \|
\`PLATFORM_APPLICATION\` \| Yes \| Yes \| A base64-encoded JSON object
that describes the app. It maps certain attributes from your \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md), some with more structure.
See \[notes\](#platform_application). \| \|
\`PLATFORM_APPLICATION_NAME\` \| Yes \| Yes \| The app name as set in
your \[app configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md). \| \|
\`PLATFORM_BRANCH\` \| No \| Yes \| The name of the Git branch. \| \|
\`PLATFORM_CACHE_DIR\` \| Yes \| No \| The directory where files are
cached from one build to the next. The directory is shared among all
branches, so the same cache is used for all environments. \| \|
\`PLATFORM_DOCUMENT_ROOT\` \| No \| Yes \| The absolute path to the web
document root, if applicable. \| \| \`PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT\` \| No \|
Yes \| The name of the Upsun environment. \| \|
\`PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE\` \| No \| Yes \| The environment type of
the Upsun environment (\`development\`, \`staging\`, or \`production\`).
\| \| \`PLATFORM_OUTPUT_DIR\` \| Yes \| No \| The output directory for
compiled languages at build time. Equivalent to \`PLATFORM_APP_DIR\` in
most cases. \| \| \`PLATFORM_PROJECT\` \| Yes \| Yes \| The project ID.
\| \| \`PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY\` \| Yes \| Yes \| A random,
56-character value created at project creation and then stable
throughout the project\'s life. Can be used for Drupal hash salts,
Symfony secrets, and other similar values. \| \|
\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` \| No \| Yes \| The
\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` variable is automatically broken down into
\[service environment
variables\](./\_index.md#service-environment-variables), so your app can
seamlessly connect to databases and other services defined in
\`.upsun/config.yaml\`.For some advanced use cases, you may need to use
the \`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` variable itself. It is a base64-encoded
JSON object of relationships, with keys that indicate the relationship
names, and values that are arrays of relationship endpoint definitions.
The exact format is defined differently for each
\[service\](../../add-services/\_index.md).You may need to gather
\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` information in a \`\`.environment\`\` file.
See how to \[use \`\`.env\`\` files\](./set-variables.md#use-env-files),
and refer to \[dedicated service pages\](/add-services/\_index.md) for
examples. \| \| \`PLATFORM_ROUTES\` \| No \| Yes \| A base64-encoded
JSON object that describes the routes for the environment. It maps the
content of your \[routes
configuration\](../../define-routes/\_index.md). Note that this
information is also available in your \`/run/config.json\` file. \| \|
\`PLATFORM_SMTP_HOST\` \| No \| Yes \| The SMTP host to send email
messages through. Is empty when mail is disabled for the current
environment. \| \| \`PLATFORM_SOURCE_DIR\` \| Yes \| No \| The path to
the root directory of your code repository in the context of a running
\[source operation\](../../create-apps/source-operations.md). The
directory contains a writable copy of your repository that you can
commit to during the operation. \| \| \`PLATFORM_TREE_ID\` \| Yes \| Yes
\| The ID of the tree the application was built from, essentially the
SHA hash of the tree in Git. Use when you need a unique ID for each
build. \| \| \`PLATFORM_VARIABLES\` \| Some \| Some \| A base64-encoded
JSON object with all user-defined project and environment variables that
don\'t use a \[prefix\](./\_index.md#variable-prefixes). The keys are
the variable names and the values are the variable values. Availability
during builds and at runtime depends on the settings for each variable.
See how to \[access individual
variables\](#access-variables-in-a-shell). \| \| \`PLATFORM_VENDOR\` \|
Yes \| No \| Allows you to change the behavior of the build according to
the vendor (Upsun or Platform.sh). \| \| \`PORT\` \| No \| Yes \| A
\`string\` representing the port to which requests are sent if the
\[\`web.upstream.socket_family\`
property\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#upstream)
is unset or set to \`tcp\`. \| \| \`SOCKET\` \| No \| Yes \| A
\`string\` representing the path to the Unix socket file to use if the
\[\`web.upstream.socket_family\`
property\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#upstream)
is set to \`unix\`. \| \### \`PLATFORM_APPLICATION\` The
\`PLATFORM_APPLICATION\` variable is available both at build time and in
the runtime environment. But the specific attributes it contains differ
in each case. Each environment\'s build is associated with a
configuration ID that identifies it uniquely so builds can be reused.
The ID is a product of your app code and some of its \[configuration for
Upsun\](../../create-apps/\_index.md). Not every attribute your app
configuration is relevant to the build. Only those attributes that are
relevant to builds are accessible at build time from
\`PLATFORM_APPLICATION\`. Attributes that are \*\*not\*\* available in
\`PLATFORM_APPLICATION\` during builds: - Everything under \`access\` -
Everything under \`relationship\` - Everything under \`firewall\` -
\`hooks.deploy\` and \`hooks.post_deploy\` - Everything under
\`crons\` - Everything under \`web\`, except \`web.mounts\` - Everything
under \`workers\`, except \`workers.mounts\` These attributes aren\'t
visible during build because they aren\'t included as a part of the
configuration component of the build slug. So modifying these values in
your \[app configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md) doesn\'t
trigger an app rebuild, only a redeploy. For more information, read
about \[how builds work\](/learn/overview/build-deploy.md#the-build).
\## Use variables in static files Some apps require configuration values
to be specified in a static, non-executable file (such as a \`.ini\`,
\`.xml\`, or \`.yaml\` file) and don\'t support reading from environment
variables. To populate these files with variables you set yourself, make
sure the variables are set to be \[visible at build
time\](./set-variables.md#variable-options). The files can\'t be
populated with Upsun-provided variables not available at build time
(such as \`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` or \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)).
You also can\'t write to them in a \`deploy\` hook as the file system is
read only. One workaround is to create a symbolic link to a writable
location and then write to it in a \[\`deploy\`
hook\](../../create-apps/hooks/hooks-comparison.md#deploy-hook). The
following example shows the process, though you have to modify it to fit
your needs. 1. Create a mount that isn\'t accessible to the web in your
\[app configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md): \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: APP_NAME mounts: /config: source: storage source_path:
config \`\`\` 2. Create a symbolic link from the config file the
application wants to a location in that mount: \`\`\`bash \# From the
application root\... ln -s config/db.yaml db.yaml \`\`\` This example
assumes the app wants a \`db.yaml\` file in its root for configuration.
3. Commit the symbolic link and an empty \`config\` directory to Git. 4.
Configure a script to read from environment variables and write to
\`config/db.yaml\` through the \[service environment
variables\](/development/variables/\_index.md#service-environment-variables)
themselves, or through the \[\`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS\` environment
variable\](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).\
Create a file with a shell script similar to this:

::: {x-data="{
    codetab: 'default',
    switchCodetab(targetCodetab) {
      this.codetab = targetCodetab;
    }
  }"}
-   Service environment variables
-   `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable

export-config.sh
`#!/bin/bash # Ensure the file is empty. cat '' > config/db.yaml # Map the database information from the service environment variable into the YAML file. # Use this process to use whatever variable names your app needs. # For more information, please visit https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables.html#service-environment-variables. printf "host: %s\n" $(echo $DATABASE_HOST) >> config/db.yaml printf "user: %s\n" $(echo $DATABASE_USERNAME) >> config/db.yaml`
export-config.sh
`#!/bin/bash # Ensure the file is empty. cat '' > config/db.yaml # Map the database information from the PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS variable into the YAML file. # Use this process to use whatever variable names your app needs. # For more information, please visit https://docs.upsun.com/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables. printf "host: %s\n" $(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".database[0].host") >> config/db.yaml printf "user: %s\n" $(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".database[0].username") >> config/db.yaml`
5. Call the script from the \`deploy\` hook your \[app
configuration\](../../create-apps/\_index.md): \`\`\`yaml {}
applications: APP_NAME hooks: deploy: \| bash export-config.sh \`\`\`
Now, when your app starts and attempts to parse \`db.yaml\`, the
symbolic link redirects it to \`config/db.yaml\`. Your script writes to
that file on each deploy with updated information. Your app reads the
exported values and proceeds as expected. #Webhooks Webhooks allow you
to host a script yourself externally that receives the same payload as
an activity script and responds to the same events, but can be hosted on
your own server in your own language. \## Setup \`\`\`bash upsun
integration:add \--type=webhook \--url=URL_TO_RECEIVE_JSON \`\`\` The
webhook URL receives a POST message for every activity that\'s
triggered. The message contains complete information about the entire
state of the project at that time. It\'s possible to set the integration
to only send certain activity types, or only activities on certain
branches. The CLI prompts you to specify which to include or exclude.
Leave at the default values to get all events on all environments in a
project. For testing purposes, you can generate a URL from a service
such as \[webhook.site\](https://webhook.site/) and use the generated
URL as \`URL_TO_RECEIVE_JSON\`. \## Webhook schema See the \[activity
script\](/integrations/activity/reference.md) reference for a
description of the webhook payload. \## Validate the integration To
verify your integration is functioning properly, run the following \[CLI
command\](/integrations/overview.md#validate-integrations): \`\`\`bash
upsun integration:validate \`\`\` #Work with workers Workers are
instances of your code that aren\'t open to connections from other apps
or services or the outside world. They\'re good for handling background
tasks. See how to \[configure a
worker\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#workers) for
your app. \## Access the worker container Like with any other
application container, Upsun allows you to connect to the worker
instance through SSH to inspect logs and interact with it. Use the
\`\--worker\` switch in the Upsun CLI, like so: \`\`\`bash upsun ssh
\--worker=queue \`\`\` \## Stopping a worker If a worker instance needs
to be updated during a new deployment, a \`SIGTERM\` signal is first
sent to the worker process to allow it to shut down gracefully. If your
worker process can\'t be interrupted mid-task, make sure it reacts to
\`SIGTERM\` to pause its work gracefully. If the process is still
running after 15 seconds, a \`SIGKILL\` message is sent that
force-terminates the worker process, allowing the container to be shut
down and restarted. To restart a worker manually, \[access the
container\](#access-the-worker-container) and run the following
commands: \`\`\`bash sv stop app sv start app \`\`\` \## Workers vs cron
jobs Worker instances don\'t run cron jobs. Instead, both worker
instances and cron tasks address similar use cases. They both address
out-of-band work that an application needs to do but that shouldn\'t or
can\'t be done as part of a normal web request. They do so in different
ways and so are fit for different use cases. A cron job is well suited
for tasks when: \* They need to happen on a fixed schedule, not
continually. \* The task itself isn\'t especially long, as a running
cron job blocks a new deployment. \* It\'s long but can be divided into
many small queued tasks. \* A delay between when a task is registered
and when it actually happens is acceptable. A dedicated worker instance
is a better fit if: \* Tasks should happen \"now\", but not block a web
request. \* Tasks are large enough that they risk blocking a deploy,
even if they\'re subdivided. \* The task in question is a continually
running process rather than a stream of discrete units of work. The
appropriateness of one approach over the other also varies by language;
single-threaded languages would benefit more from either cron or workers
than a language with native multi-threading, for instance. If a given
task seems like it would run equally well as a worker or as a cron, cron
is generally more efficient as it doesn\'t require its own container.
\## Commands The \`commands\` key defines the command to launch the
worker application. For now there is only a single command, \`start\`,
but more will be added in the future. The \`commands.start\` property is
required. The \`start\` key specifies the command to use to launch your
worker application. It may be any valid shell command, although most
often it runs a command in your application in the language of your
application. If the command specified by the \`start\` key terminates,
it\'s restarted automatically. Note that \[\`deploy\` and
\`post_deploy\` hooks\](./hooks/\_index.md) as well as \[\`cron\`
commands\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#crons) run
only on the
\[\`web\`\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#web)
container, not on workers. \## Inheritance Any top-level definitions for
\[\`relationships\`\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#relationships),
\[\`access\`\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#access),
\[\`mount\`\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts),
and
\[\`variables\`\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#variables)
are inherited by every worker, unless overridden explicitly. Likewise
\[resources defined for the application
container\](/manage-resources/\_index.md) are inherited by every worker,
unless overridden explicitly. That means, for example, that the
following two \`.upsun/config.yaml\` definitions produce identical
workers. \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: #The name of the app, which
must be unique within the project. type: python:3.9 mounts: test:
source: storage source_path: test relationships: mysql: workers: queue:
commands: start: \| python queue-worker.py mail: commands: start: \|
python mail-worker.py services: mysql: type: mariadb:11.4 \`\`\`
\`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: #The name of the app, which must be
unique within the project. type: python:3.9 workers: queue: commands:
start: \| python queue-worker.py mounts: test: source: storage
source_path: test mysql: mail: commands: start: \| python mail-worker.py
mounts: test: source: storage source_path: test mysql: services: mysql:
type: mariadb:11.4 \`\`\` In both cases, there are two worker instances
named \`queue\` and \`mail\`. Both have access to a MySQL/MariaDB
service defined in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`, through a
\[relationship\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#relationships)
that is identical to the \_name\_ of that service (\`mysql\`). Both also
have their own separate \[\`storage\`
mount\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts). \##
Customizing a worker The most common properties to set in a worker to
override the top-level settings are \`variables\` and its resources.
\`variables\` lets you instruct the application to run differently as a
worker than as a web site, whereas you can allocate \[fewer
worker-specific resources\](/manage-resources/\_index.md) for a
container that is running only a single background process (unlike the
web site which is handling many requests at once). For example, consider
the following configuration: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp: #The
name of the app, which must be unique within the project. type:
\"python:3.9\" hooks: build: \| pip install -r requirements.txt pip
install -e . pip install gunicorn relationships: mysql: rabbitmq:
variables: env: type: \'none\' web: commands: start: \"gunicorn -b
\$PORT project.wsgi:application\" variables: env: type: \'web\' mounts:
uploads: source: storage source_path: uploads locations: \"/\": root:
\"\" passthru: true allow: false \"/static\": root: \"static/\" allow:
true workers: queue: commands: start: \| python queue-worker.py
variables: env: type: \'worker\' mounts: scratch: source: storage
source_path: scratch mail: commands: start: \| python mail-worker.py
variables: env: type: \'worker\' mounts: {} relationships: rabbitmq:
services: mysql: type: \'mariadb:11.4\' rabbitmq: type:
\'rabbitmq:3.13\' \`\`\` There\'s a lot going on here, but it\'s all
reasonably straightforward. The configuration in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`
takes a single Python 3.9 code base from your repository, downloads all
dependencies in \`requirements.txt\`, and then installs Gunicorn. That
artifact (your code plus the downloaded dependencies) is deployed as
three separate container instances, all running Python 3.9. The \`web\`
instance starts a Gunicorn process to serve a web application. - It runs
the Gunicorn process to serve web requests, defined by the
\`project/wsgi.py\` file which contains an \`application\` definition. -
It has an environment variable named \`TYPE\` with value \`web\`. - It
has a writable mount at \`/app/uploads\`. - It has access to both a
MySQL database and a RabbitMQ server, both of which are defined in
\`.upsun/config.yaml\`. The \`queue\` instance is a worker that isn\'t
web-accessible. - It runs the \`queue-worker.py\` script, and restart it
automatically if it ever terminates. - It has an environment variable
named \`TYPE\` with value \`worker\`. - It has a writable mount at
\`/app/scratch\`. - It has access to both a MySQL database and a
RabbitMQ server, both of which are defined in \`.upsun/config.yaml\`
(because it doesn\'t specify otherwise). The \`mail\` instance is a
worker that isn\'t web-accessible. - It runs the \`mail-worker.py\`
script, and restart it automatically if it ever terminates. - It has an
environment variable named \`TYPE\` with value \`worker\`. - It has no
writable file mounts at all. - It has access only to the RabbitMQ
server, through a different relationship name than on the \`web\`
instance. It has no access to MySQL.

### Note

Upsun automatically allocates default resources to each instance, unless
you [define a different resource initialization
strategy](/manage-resources/resource-init.html#specify-a-resource-initialization-strategy).
You can also adjust resources after your project has been deployed.

For example, if you want the \`web\` instance to have a large upload
space and the \`queue\` instance to have a small amount of scratch space
for temporary files, you can allocate more CPU and RAM to the \`web\`
instance than to the \`queue\` instance. The \`mail\` instance has no
persistent writable disk space at all, as it doesn\'t need it. The
\`mail\` instance also doesn\'t need any access to the SQL database, so
for security reasons it has none. Each instance can also check the
\`TYPE\` environment variable to detect how it\'s running and, if
appropriate, adjust its behavior accordingly. \## Mounts When defining a
\[worker\](../create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#workers)
instance, keep in mind what mount behavior you want. \`tmp\` and
\`instance\` local mounts are a separate storage area for each instance,
while \`storage\` mounts can be shared between instances. For example,
you can define a \`storage\` mount (called \`shared_dir\`) to be used by
a \`web\` instance, and a \`tmp\` mount (called \`local_dir\`) to be
used by a \`queue\` worker instance: \`\`\`yaml {} applications: myapp:
#The name of the app, which must be unique within the project. type:
\"nodejs:22\" \# Define a web instance web: locations: \"/\": root:
\"public\" passthru: true index: \[\'index.html\'\] mounts: \# Define a
storage mount that\'s available to both instances together
\'shared_dir\': source: storage service: files source_path: our_stuff \#
Define a local mount that\'s available to each instance separately
\'local_dir\': source: tmp source_path: my_stuff \# Define a worker
instance from the same code but with a different start workers: queue:
commands: start: ./start.sh \`\`\` Both the \`web\` instance and
\`queue\` worker have their own, dedicated \`local_dir\` mount. Note
that: - Each \`local_dir\` mount is a \[\`tmp\`
mount\](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.md#mounts) with
a \*\*maximum allocation of 8 GB\*\*. - \`tmp\` mounts \*\*may be
removed\*\* during infrastructure maintenance operations. Both the
\`web\` instance and \`queue\` worker also have a \`shared_dir\` mount
pointing to the same network storage space. They can both read and write
to it simultaneously.
:::
::::
:::::
::::::
:::::::
::::::::
:::::::::
::::::::::
:::::::::::
::::::::::::
:::::::::::::

</div>

</div>

</div>
:::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
