---
# Data: Add and edit regions in `docs/data/regions.yaml`.
# Styles: See `docs/static/styles/user-customizations.css` under `Region information`
# Table shortcode: See `docs/layouts/shortcodes/regions.html`.
title: Regions
weight: 14
description: See information about {{% vendor/name %}} regions, including their environmental impact and IP addresses.
---

{{% vendor/name %}} offers several regions for hosting project data.
You can choose a region based on criteria such as its closeness to your users and its environmental impact.

## Environmental impact

Whenever you create a project with us, we provide information about the electricity grid provider for that region. You can view the average carbon intensity of the energy grid in grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour.
These data are sourced from an annual average, which we update as new information becomes available. If you want to see real-time emissions generated by each power grid, we recommend checking out [Electricity Maps](https://app.electricitymap.org/map). You can also access a public GitHub page of Electricity Maps [data sources](https://github.com/electricitymap/electricitymap-contrib/blob/master/DATA_SOURCES.md).

Summary of data being used in {{% vendor/name %}}’s Region Picker when creating a new Project:
| Source | Last update of this page | Previous versions of this page |
|--------|--------------------------|--------------------------------|
| Electricity Maps 2022 annual averages (previous to May 2023, we had used annual averages from the IEA). <BR> See our [blog post](https://devcenter.upsun.com/posts/platformsh-is-now-using-annual-carbon-intensities-from-electricity-maps/) for more information.| 11 May 2023 | Available [here](https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs/commits/main/docs/src/development/regions.md) |

Information on carbon intensity is also available in the {{% vendor/name %}} API.
For example, to get a list of the regions and their carbon intensities, run the following command:

```bash
{{% vendor/cli %}} api:curl regions | jq -r '.regions[] | select(.available != false) | "\(.label): \(.environmental_impact.carbon_intensity)"'
```

See all available information in the [API documentation](https://api.platform.sh/docs/#tag/Regions).

### Carbon Emissions dashboard

The Carbon Emissions dashboard provides an overview of the carbon footprint associated with your cloud resource usage. This dashboard calculates emissions using a Carbon Price List (CPL) methodology, inspired by the Cloud Carbon Footprint model. 

Users can view total emissions over time and project specific emissions for the current year, broken down by kilograms of CO2 equivalent (kg CO2e). The dashboard also includes information about how emissions are calculated and what factors (server location, usage etc.) can influence those totals.

#### Access the dashboard

This dashboard is accessible via the Emissions tab within the Billing section in Console.

#### How is this calculated?

We collect detailed billing data from our cloud service providers (including associated costs and quantities) and this information is represented as line items. 

Our carbon management partner, Greenly, calculates the energy use and embodied emissions for each line item. This is done through data gathering and modeling that estimates energy consumption, power usage effectiveness (PUE), and carbon intensity for the cloud providers. Using cost allocation models, your project’s share of emissions is then estimated.

We have been working closely with Greenly to build upon the model, tailoring it to better reflect our specific data and technical requirements to ensure your emissions data is credible, compliant and supports your progress toward real, measurable sustainability targets.

{{% note theme="warning" %}}

[OVH](/development/regions.html#france-fr-3-fr-3) and [Orange](/development/regions.html#france-fr-1-fr-1) region data is not available in this dashboard. 

{{% /note %}}

#### What affects emissions?

- **Where you run:** Data center regions vary greatly in grid-carbon intensity. Selecting a cleaner region is the most impactful way to reduce footprint.

- **What you provision:** Emissions rise in proportion to the resources you allocate.

{{% note theme="tip" %}}

Optimizing code or app performance reduces emissions only if it leads to lower resource allocation.

{{% /note %}}


### Greener Region Discount

You can get a 3% discount on your resource usage if you host your project in one of {{% vendor/name %}}'s eco-friendly regions:

- Quebec, Canada (`ca-central-1`),
- Stockholm, Sweden (`eu-north-1`),
- Paris, France (`francecentral`),
- OVH (`gra7`),
- Quincy, Washington (`westus2`),
- Zurich, Switzerland (`europe-west6`).

The 3% discount covers application CPU, application memory, service CPU, service memory, and build resources.
It **doesn’t** apply to the project fee or other billing aspects.
It can be combined with other offers or discounts.

See [more information on the greener region discount](https://upsun.com/blog/announcing-greener-region-discount/).

## Region availability

The regions listed here may be different from those available to you when you create a new project.
Each organization can have its own rules for what regions to allow.
When adding a new project, you only see regions allowed by your organization.

## Region location

{{% region-location %}}

{{% note theme="info" %}}

As an alternative, you can also use the following command with the {{% vendor/name %}} CLI to find out where a given region is hosted:

``` bash
{{% vendor/cli %}} api:curl regions | jq '.regions[] | select(.available)  | .id + ": " + .provider.name + " - " + .zone + " - " + .timezone' | sort
```

The returned list contains, for each available region, its name, provider, geographic zone and its timezone - as shown above.

{{% /note %}}

## Public IP addresses

The public IP addresses for regions are stable, but not guaranteed to never change.
Before any change, you are notified well in advance regarding affected projects.

They're useful for cases such as when you have a corporate firewall that blocks outgoing SSH connections.
In such cases, add the inbound IP addresses for your region to your allow list.

## Regions

### Europe

{{< regions region="europe" >}}

### United States

{{< regions region="us" >}}

### Canada

{{< regions region="canada" >}}

### Australia

{{< regions region="australia" >}}

{{% note theme="info" title="Historic changes" %}}

On March 17, 2025, the outbound IP addresses for regions running on Google Cloud Platform and Microsoft Azure services were changed. This change was made to separate the inbound and outbound IP addresses for these regions.

If you have external services relying on outbound IP whitelisting from your {{% vendor/name %}} project, you should update your external whitelists to reflect this change.

Please see the relevant region information above for the new regional outbound IP addresses.

{{% /note %}}
