# Variables

Platform.sh allows a high degree of control over both the build process and the runtime environment of a project.  Part of that control comes in the form of *variables* that are set independently of the project's code base but available either at build or runtime for your code to leverage.  Platform.sh also exposes additional information to your application that way, including information like database credentials, the host or port it can use, and so forth.

## Types of variables

There are three different types of variable: User-provided project variables, user-provided environment variables, and Platform.sh-provided environment variables.  All of those may be simple strings or base64-encoded JSON-serialized values.

### Project variables

Project variables are defined by the user and bound to a whole project.  They are available both at build time (and therefore from a build hook) and at runtime, and are the same for all environments in the project.  New project variables can be added using the CLI.  For example, the following command sets a project-level variable "foo" to the value "bar":

```bash
platform project:variable:set foo bar
```

Project variables are a good place to store secret information that is needed at build time, such as credentials for a private 3rd party code repository.

By default, project variables will be available at both build time and runtime. You can supress one or the other with the `--no-visible-build` and `--no-visible-runtime` flags, such as if you want to hide certain credentials from runtime entirely.  For example, the following (silly) example will define a project variable but hide it from both build and runtime:
>>>>>>> Rewrite the variables page.

```bash
platform project:variable:set foo bar --no-visible-build --no-visible-runtime
```

Naturally in practice you'll want to use only one or the other, or allow the variable to be visible in both cases.

### Platform.sh Environment variables

Environtment-level variables can also be set [through the web interface](administration/web/configure-environment.html#settings), or using the CLI. Environment variables are bound to a specific environment or branch.  An environment will also inherit variables from its parent environment, unless it has a variable defined with the same name.  That allows you to define your development variables only once, and use them on all the child environments.  For instance, to set the environment variable "foo" to the value "bar" on the currently checked out environment/branch, run:

```bash
$ platform variable:set foo bar
```

That will set a variable on the currently active environment (that is, the branch you have checked out).  To set a variable on a different environment include the `-e` switch to specify the environment name.

Changing an environment variable will cause that environment to be redeployed so that it gets the new value.  However, it will *not* redeploy any child environments. If you want those to get the new value you will need to redeploy them yourself.

Environment variables are a good place to store values that apply only on Platform.sh and not on your local development environment. This includes API credentials for 3rd party services, mode settings if your application has a separate "Dev" and "Prod" toggle, etc.

## Platform.sh-provided variables

Platform.sh also provides a series of variables by default.  These inform an application about its runtime configuration.  The most important of these is relationship information, which tells the application how to connect to databases and other services defined in `services.yaml`.  They are always prefixed with `PLATFORM_*` to differentiate them from user-provided values.

* **PLATFORM_APP_DIR**: The absolute path to the application directory.
* **PLATFORM_APPLICATION**: A base64-encoded JSON object that describes the application. It maps the content of the `.platform.app.yaml` that you have in Git and it has a few subkeys.
* **PLATFORM_APPLICATION_NAME**: The name of the application, as configured in the `.platform.app.yaml` file.
* **PLATFORM_BRANCH**: The name of the Git branch.
* **PLATFORM_DOCUMENT_ROOT**: The absolute path to the web document root, if applicable.
* **PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT**: The name of the environment generated by the name of the Git branch.
* **PLATFORM_PROJECT**: The ID of the project.
* **PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS**: A base64-encoded JSON object whose keys are the relationship name and the values are arrays of relationship endpoint definitions. See the documentation for each [Service](/configuration/services.yaml) for details on each service type's schema.
* **PLATFORM_ROUTES**: Describe the routes that you defined in the environment. It maps the content of the `.platform/routes.yaml` file.
* **PLATFORM_TREE_ID**: The ID of the tree the application was built from. It's essentially the SHA hash of the tree in Git.
* **PLATFORM_VARIABLES**: A base64-encoded JSON object which keys are variables names and values are variable values (see below).
* **PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY**: A random value created when the project is first created, which is then stable throughout the project’s life. This can be used for Drupal hash salt, Symfony secret, or other similar values in other frameworks.

Since values can change over time, the best thing is to inspect the variable at runtime then use it to configure your application. For example:

```bash
echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | json_pp
```

```json
{
    "database": [
        {
            "host": "database.internal",
            "ip": "246.0.97.91",
            "password": "",
            "path": "main",
            "port": 3306,
            "query": {
                "is_master": true
            },
            "scheme": "mysql",
            "username": "user"
        }
    ],
    "redis": [
        {
            "host": "redis.internal",
            "ip": "246.0.97.88",
            "port": 6379,
            "scheme": "redis"
        }
    ]
}
```

## Accessing variables

You can get a list of all variables defined on a given environment either [via the Web Interface](administration/web/configure-environment.html#settings) or using the CLI:

```bash
$ platform variables

+---------+-------+-----------+------+
| ID      | Value | Inherited | JSON |
+---------+-------+-----------+------+
| env:FOO | bar   | No        | No   |
+---------+-------+-----------+------+
```

### At build time

Only Project variables are available at build time.  They will be exposed as Unix environment variables, with their names forced to uppercase, which can be accessed either from the shell directly or as part of a script.  To access them inline as part of a build hook command prefix the variable with a `$` like so:

```bash
echo $MY_VAR
```

They can also be accessed from within a non-shell script via the language's standard way of accessing environment variables.  For instance, in PHP you would use `getenv('MY_VAR')`. Remember that in some cases they may be base64 JSON strings, and will need to be unpacked.  To do so from the shell, for instance, you would do: 

```bash
echo $PLATFORM_VARIABLES | base64 --decode
{"myvar": "this is a value"}
```

### At runtime

In a running container, which includes the deploy hook, your Project variables, Environment variables, and Platform.sh-provided variables are all exposed as Unix environment variables and can be accessed by your application through your language's standard way of accessing environment variables.

Platform.sh-defined variables will be exposed directly with the names listed above.  Project and environment variables will be merged together into a single JSON array and exposed in the `$PLATFORM_VARIABLES` environment variable.  In case of a matching name, an environment variable will override a variable of the same name in a parent environment, and both will override a project variable.

For example, suppose we have the following project variables defined:

```bash
platform project:variable:set system_name Spiffy
platform project:variable:set system_version 1.5
```

And the following environment variables defined, where `feature-x` is a child environment (and branch off of) `master`:

```bash
platform variable:set -e master api_key abc123
platform variable:set -e feature-x api_key def456
platform variable:set -e feature-x system_version 1.7
platform variable:set -e feature-x debug_mode 1
```

In this case, on the `master` environment `$PLATFORM_VARIABLES` would look like this:

```bash
echo $PLATFORM_VARIABLES | base64 --decode | json_pp
```

```json
{
    "system_name": "Spiffy",
    "system_version": "1.5",
    "api_key": "abc123"
}
```

While the same command on the `feature-x` branch would produce:

```json
{
    "system_name": "Spiffy",
    "system_version": "1.7",
    "api_key": "def456",
    "debug_mode": "1"
}
```

## Variable prefixes

Certain variable name prefixes have special meaning.  A few of these are defined by Platform.sh and are built-in.  Others are simply available as a convention for your own application code to follow.

### Top-level environment variables

By default, project and environment variables are only added as part of the `$PLATFORM_VARIABLES` Unix environment variable.  However, you can also expose a variable as its own Unix environment variable by giving it the prefix `env:`.  

For example, the variable `env:foo` will create an environment variable called `FOO`.  (Note the automatic upper-casing.)

```ini
$ platform variable:set env:foo bar
```

With PHP, you can then access that variable with `getenv('FOO')`.

### PHP-specific variables

Any variable that is prepended with `php:` will also be added to the `php.ini` configuration of all PHP-based application containers.  For example, an environment variable named `php:display_errors` with value `On` is equivalent to placing the following in `php.ini`:

```ini
display_errors = On
```

This feature is primarily useful to override debug configuration on development environments, such as enabling errors or configuring the XDebug extension.  For applying a configuration setting to all environments, or to vary them between different PHP containers in the same project, use a custom `php.ini` file in your repository.  See the [PHP configuration page](/languages/php.md#custom-phpini) for more information.

### Drupal-specific variables

As a convention, our provided Drupal template code will automatically map variables to Drupal's configuration system.  The logic varies slightly depending on the Drupal version.

On [Drupal 7](), any variable that begins with `drupal:` will be mapped to the global `$conf` array, which overrides Drupal's `variable_get()` system.  For instance, to force a site name from the Platform.sh variables (say to set it "This is a Dev site") you would set the `drupal:site_name` variable.

On [Drupal 8](), any variable that begins with `drupal:` will be mapped to the global `$settings` array. That is intended for very low-level configuration.  

Also on Drupal 8, any variable that begins with `d8config:` will be mapped to the global `$config` array, which is useful for overriding drupal's exportable configuration system.  The variable name will need to contain two colons, one for `d8config:` and one for the name of the configuration object to override.  For example, a variable named `d8config:system.site:name` will override the `name` property of the `system.site` configuration object.

As the above logic is defined in a file in your Git repository you are free to change it if desired.  The same behavior can also be easily implemented for any other application or framework.

## Shell variables

You can also provide a `.environment` file as part of your application, in your application root (as a sibling of your `.platform.app.yaml` file, or files in the case of a mult-app configuration).  That file will be sourced as a bash script when the container starts and on all SSH logins.  It can be used to set any environment variables directly, such as the PATH variable.  For example, the following `.environment` file will allow any executable installed using Composer as part of a project to be run regardless of the current directory:
 
 ```yaml
export PATH=/app/vendor/bin:$PATH
 ```

Note that the file is sourced after all other environment variables above are defined, so they will be available to the script.  
