# December 2017

## New project subdomains

The routes generated for subdomains and literal domains in development environments will now use `.` instead of translating them to `---`, for projects created after this date.

## `!include` tag support in YAML files

All YAML configuration files now support a generic [`!include`](/configuration/yaml.md) tag that can be used to embed one file within another.

## Extended mount definitions

A new syntax has been added for defining [mount points](/configuration/app/storage.md) that is more self-descriptive and makes future extension easier.

## Blocking older TLS versions

It is now possible to disable support for [HTTPS requests](/configuration/routes/https.md) using older versions of TLS.  TLS 1.0 is known to be insecure in some circumstances and some compliance standards require a higher minimum supported version.

## `{all}` placeholder for routes

A new placeholder is available in [`routes.yaml`](/configuration/routes.md) files that matches all configured domains.

## GitLab source code integration

Synchronize Git repository host on [GitLab](/administration/integrations/gitlab.md) to Platform.sh.

# November 2017

## PHP 7.2 supported

With the release of PHP 7.2.0, Platform.sh now offers [PHP 7.2](/languages/php.md) containers on Platform Professional.

# September 2017

## Health notifications

Low-disk warnings will now trigger a [notification](/administration/integrations/notifications.md) via email, Slack, or PagerDuty.

# August 2017

## Worker instances

Applications now support [worker instances](/configuration/app/workers.md).

# July 2017

## Node.js 8.2

[Node.js 8.2](/languages/nodejs.md) is now available.

# June 2017

## Memcache 1.4

[Memcache 1.4](/configuration/services/memcached.md) is now available as a caching backend.

## Custom static headers in .platform.app.yaml

Added support for setting custom headers for static files in `.platform.app.yaml`.  [See the example](/configuration/app/web.md#how-can-i-control-the-headers-sent-with-my-files) for more information.

# May 2017

## Code-driven variables in .platform.app.yaml

Added support for setting [environment variables via `.platform.app.yaml`](/configuration/app/variables.md).

## Python 3.6, Ruby 2.4, Node.js 6.10

Added support for updated versions of several languages.

# April 2017

## Support for automatic SSL certificates

All production environments are now issued an SSL certificate automatically through Let's Encrypt.

See the [routing documentation](/configuration/routes/https.md) for more information.

## MariaDB 10.1

MariaDB 10.1 is now available (accessible as `mysql:10.1`).

Additionally, both MariaDB 10.0 and 10.1 now use the Barracuda file format with `innodb_large_prefix` enabled, which allows for much longer indexes and resolves issues with some UTF-8 MB use cases.

# March 2017

## Elasticsearch 2.4 and 5.2 with support for plugins

Elasticsearch 2.4 and 5.2 are now available.  Both have a number of optional plugins avaialble.  See the [Elasticsearch documentation](/configuration/services/elasticsearch.md) for more information.

## InfluxDB 1.2

A new service type is available for InfluxDB 1.2, a time-series database.  See the [InfluxDB documentation](/configuration/services/influxdb.md) for more information.

# February 2017

## HHVM 3.15 and 3.18

Two new HHVM versions are now available.

# January 2017

## Support for Multiple MySQL databases and restricted users

MySQL now supports multiple databases, and restricted users per MySQL service.

See the [MySQL documentation](/configuration/services/mysql.md) for details or read our [blog post](https://platform.sh/2017/02/multi-mysql).

## Support for Persistent Redis services

Added a `redis-persistent` service that is appropriate for persistent key-value data. The `redis` service is still available for caching.  See the [Redis documentation](/configuration/services/redis.md) for details.

## Support Apache Solr 6.3 with multiple cores

Added an Apache 6.3 service, which can be configured with multiple cores.  See the [Solr documentation](/configuration/services/solr.md) for details.

## Support for HTTP/2

Any site configured with HTTPS will now automatically support HTTP/2

Read more on our [blog post](https://platform.sh/2017/1/http2).

