# December 2018

## Elasticsearch 5.4

We now offer [Elasticsearch 5.4](/configuration/services/elasticsearch.md).

## Improved Bash support

Bash history on application containers now persists between logins.

## PHP 7.3

We now support [PHP 7.3](/languages/php.md).

## PostgreSQL 10.0 and 11.0

We now support [PostgreSQL 10.0 and 11.0](/configuration/services/postgresql.md) with an automaterd upgrade path.

## Ruby 2.5 out of beta

We now fully support [Ruby 2.5](/languages/ruby.md).

# October 2018

## Redis updates

[Redis 4.0 and 5.0](/configuration/services/redis.md) are now supported.

## Golang support

[Go](/languages/go.md) is now a fully supported language platform.

# September 2018

## Python 3.7 support

We now support [Python 3.7](/languages/python.md).

# August 2018

## New public Canadian region

Our new Canadian region is now open for business.

# July 2018

## Security and Compliance

We have created a new "Security and Compliance" section to help customers address common questions relating to GDPR, Data Collection, Data Retention, Encryption, and similar topics.

# June 2018

## Node.js 10

We now offer [Node.js version 10](/languages/nodejs.md).  All releases in the 10.x series will be included in that container.

## MongoDB 3.6

We now offer [MongoDB 3.2, 3.4, and 3.6](/configuration/services/mongodb.md).  Note that upgrading from MongoDB 3.0 requires upgrading through all intermediary versions.

# March 2018

## Web Application Firewall (WAF)

Platform.sh is securing your applications and you don't need to change anything.

Read more on our [blog post](https://platform.sh/blog/announcing-the-platformsh-waf).

# February 2018

## `post_deploy` hook added

Projects can now run commands on deploy but [without blocking new requests](/configuration/app/build.html#post-deploy-hook).
