---
# Data: Add and edit regions in `docs/data/regions.yaml`.
# Styles: See `docs/static/styles/user-customizations.css` under `Region information`
# Table shortcode: See `docs/layouts/shortcodes/regions.html`.
title: Regions
weight: 14
description: See information about Platform.sh regions, including their environmental impact and IP addresses.
aliases:
  - /development/public-ips.html
---

Platform.sh offers several different regions for hosting project data.
You can choose a region based on criteria such as its closeness to your users and its environmental impact.

## Environmental impact

Platform.sh is committed to reducing the environmental impact from its activities.
As part of this effort, when creating a project, you see information about the carbon footprint of the region's electricity grid provider.
You see the average carbon intensity for its energy grid (in gCO2eq/kWh).
The carbon intensity values come from the International Energy Agency.

The data used by Platform.sh are in a static table.
To see real-time emissions generated by each power grid, see [Electricity Maps](https://app.electricitymap.org/map).
You can see a public list of the [data sources for the map](https://github.com/electricitymap/electricitymap-contrib/blob/master/DATA_SOURCES.md).

Information on carbon intensity is also available in the Platform.sh API.
For example, to get a JSON object of the regions with their carbon intensities, run the following command:

```bash
platform api:curl regions | jq -r '.regions | map({(.label|tostring):.environmental_impact.carbon_intensity}) | add'
```

See all available information in the [API documentation](https://api.platform.sh/docs/#tag/Regions).

## Region availability

The regions listed here may be different from those available to you when you create a new project.
Each organization can have its own rules for what regions to allow.
When adding a new project, you only see regions allowed by your organization.

The list of regions includes legacy regions as reference.

### Legacy regions

A legacy region is a region running an older version of the Platform.sh orchestration system.
It doesn't include all available features.
See a [list of not included features](../projects/region-migration.md#why-migrate-between-regions).

These regions will be upgraded in the future.
If you’re on a legacy region and want all features now,
[migrate your project](../projects/region-migration.md) to a newer region.

## Public IP addresses

The public IP addresses for regions are stable, but not guaranteed to never change.
Before any change, you are notified well in advance regarding affected projects.

They're useful for cases such as when you have a corporate firewall that blocks outgoing SSH connections.
In such cases, add the inbound IP addresses for your region to your allow list.

## Regions

### Europe

{{< regions region="europe" >}}

### United States

{{< regions region="us" >}}

### Canada

{{< regions region="canada" >}}

### Australia

{{< regions region="australia" >}}
