---
title: "Quick Start"
weight: -70
description: |
  By default, a Platform.sh app is available at a domain generated by Platform.sh. The following resources help you take your application live on your custom domain.
---
{{% description %}}

{{< note theme="warning">}}

Adding a custom domain means your existing automatically generated URLs stop working.

Don't add a custom domain to your project until you're fully ready to change your DNS settings.
Until that time, continue working with the Platform.sh generated URLs.

{{< /note >}}

{{< note>}}

Custom domains can only be added to the default environment on production plans (Standard or larger).

{{< /note >}}

## Summary of steps

* Describe your desired future URL structure in [.platform/routes.yaml](../define-routes/_index.md)
* Understand [what DNS records you need](../domains/steps/dns.md), and whether your DNS provider can support them
* Optional: [use a CDN](../domains/cdn/_index.md)
* Update your [DNS](../domains/steps/dns.md)

This short section gives a basic typical example.
See the [Step by step guide](../domains/steps/_index.md) for more complex cases.

## Set your domain

Now, add a single domain to your Platform.sh project for `mysite.com`:

{{< codetabs >}}

---
title=In the Console
file=none
highlight=false
---

<!--This is in HTML to get the icon not to break the list. -->
<ol>
  <li>Select the project where you want to add a domain.</li>
  <li>Click {{< icon settings >}} <strong>Settings</strong>.</li>
  <li>Click <strong>Domains</strong>.</li>
  <li>Enter <code>mysite.com</code> into the <strong>Domain</strong> field.</li>
  <li>Click <strong>+ Add</strong>.</li>
</ol>

<--->
---
title=Using the CLI
file=none
highlight=false
---

Run the following command:

```bash
platform domain:add -p <PROJECT_ID> mysite.com
```

{{< /codetabs >}}

As soon as you add the domain, Platform.sh no longer serves `main-def456-abc123.eu-2.platformsh.site` at all.
Instead, `{default}` in `routes.yaml` is replaced with `mysite.com` anywhere it appears when generating routes to respond to.

You can still access the original internal domain by running `platform environment:info edge_hostname -e <BRANCH_NAME>`.

{{< note >}}
If you are planning on using subdomains across multiple projects, [the setup differs slightly](./steps/subdomains.md).
{{< /note >}}

## Configure your DNS provider

On your DNS provider, you would create two CNAMEs:

`mysite.com` should be an ALIAS/CNAME/ANAME  to `main-def456-abc123.eu-2.platformsh.site`.
`www.mysite.com` should be a CNAME to `main-def456-abc123.eu-2.platformsh.site`.

{{< note >}}
Both point to the same name. See the note above regarding how different registrars handle dynamic apex domains.
{{< /note >}}

## Result

Here's what happens under the hood.
Assume for a moment that all caches everywhere are empty.
An incoming request for `mysite.com` results in the following:

1. Your browser asks the DNS network for `mysite.com`'s DNS A record (the IP address of this host).
   It responds with "it's an alias for `www.main-def456-abc123.eu-2.platformsh.site`" (the CNAME),
   which itself resolves to the A record with IP address `1.2.3.4` (or whatever the actual address is).
   By default DNS requests by browsers are recursive, so there is no performance penalty for using CNAMEs.
3. Your browser sends a request to `1.2.3.4` for domain `mysite.com`.
4. Your router responds with an HTTP 301 redirect to `www.mysite.com` (because that's what `routes.yaml` specified).
5. Your browser looks up `www.mysite.com` and, as above, gets an alias for `www.main-def456-abc123.eu-2.platformsh.site`, which is IP `1.2.3.4`.
6. Your browser sends a request to `1.2.3.4` for domain `www.mysite.com`.
   Your router passes the request through to your application which in turn responds with whatever it's supposed to do.

On subsequent requests, your browser knows to connect to `1.2.3.4` for domain `www.mysite.com` and skip the rest.
The entire process takes only a few milliseconds.
